Title:Project Leader – Wealth Management
Location:Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-04-14
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/toronto/it/jobid7434807-project-leader-–-wealth-management-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
 
you contribute to the delivery of effective technological solutions to meet wealth management business needs and priorities. you manage project budget and timelines for completion.  you ensure that all production applications are rigorously supported. 
 
 
 
you create and maintain project plans. you deliver project estimates and provide updates to senior management.
 
 
 
you effectively and efficiently prioritize and coordinate multiple concurrent projects with conflicting deadlines and ensure the team delivers quality products and services. 
 
 
 
you liaise with the team and senior manager to ensure that project and business objectives are met and that the senior manager is kept informed of project progress and all issues are escalated in a timely manner. 
 
 
 
you supervise technical business analysts and developers in the implementation of wealth management solutions using a variety of tools and technologies such as oracle, sybase, unix, java, websphere, rational tools, hp qc. 
 
 
 
you resolve a variety of stakeholder issues and concerns including our wealth management business partners.
 
 
 
you guide team members on current tools and techniques to determine best fit for clients' technology. you liaise with our internal partners on completion to deliver appropriate solutions to meet client requirements.  
 
 
 
you provide input for staff performance appraisals and recommend staff training requirements. 
 
 
 
functional requirements:
 
advanced knowledge of java, j2ee, unix, xml, xsl, .net, perl, jsf, javascript, crystal reports.
 
seven years of experience with information technology projects and software development methodologies.
 
advance knowledge of databases such as oracle, sybase and ms sql server.
 
experience with web services, broadridge, charles river investment management systems is an asset.
 
 
 
education:
 
a recognized degree in business, mathematics or a related discipline.
 
 
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


