Title:Delivery Manager
Location:Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-06-23
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/toronto/it/jobid7842371-delivery-manager-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
you lead a team of project managers, project control officers and contractors.
you are accountable a portfolio of projects, through direct and indirect staff. 
you will coach, mentor and develop staff to achieve business/persona goals.
you clearly articulate business strategy and with the desired outcomes. 
you plan and organize the financial feasibility of projects
you manage the scope of projects by ensuring the articulation of solutions from business, information technology and operational perspectives. you align business cases and agreement by all stakeholders. 
you oversea project financials, track project spending, maintain project forecasts and ensure that project accounting activities are timely and accurate.
you prepare consolidated project plans.
you apply the appropriate program and project governance structures. you establish and identify senior level sponsors. you create and chair steering committees and other required forums and structures.
you follow the scotiabank project delivery framework; deviations are rationalized to the sponsors for the agreement on the acceptable risk.
you co-manage vendors and third parties by ensuring their role is understood, via the charter, and that their tasks and dependencies are reflected in project plans.
you motivate project teams and maintain the momentum of projects.
you communicate program and project status. you escalate issues to the stakeholders, sponsors, and senior management.
qualifications:
7years of experience delivering end-to end information technology projects
7 years of experience with relationship and vendor management
5 years of experience with coaching, mentoring and managing staff
pmp or equivalent is an asset
education and accreditations:
a recognized degree in business or technology.
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


