:
you develop, champion and deliver on short and long term people strategies in support of client group objectives by:
you maintain a solid understanding of the client group and their annual objectives/strategies.
you providing strategic planning and support to the client group’s senior management team to identify and plan hr priorities.
you ensure ongoing contact with the client group’s senior management team to keep abreast of new/changing priorities and aligning hr initiatives/priorities accordingly;
you coach and support on change management initiatives associated with client group strategies.
you provide advice and guidance on sensitive confidential and complex hr issues.
you implement corporate hr programs while ensuring effective two-way communication between client groups, policy groups, shared services and business partners 
you recommend and persuade changes to existing practices to increase value-add to the client group.
you provided input and direction on overall hr issues and represent the views of the client groups.
you participate in corporate driven projects as required.
you provide strong leadership to motivate individual and team performance through active listening skills;
you negotiate effectively and communicate individual and team goals.
you share knowledge, experience and responsibilities when coaching employees.
you manage a team of three employees.
you motivating and contribute to the development of subordinate/team performance in current job and future opportunities.
qualifications:
10 years of experience with human resources management
7 years of experience with change management
5 years of experience with project management
5 years of experience with people management
experience working with technology groups is an asset
education and accreditations:
a recognized degree in human resources or a related discipline.
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


