Title:Technical Specialist– Infrastructure Automation
Location:Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-04-14
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/toronto/it/jobid7434809-technical-specialist–-infrastructure-automation-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
you will analyze user requirements and architecture documents for complex projects to support infrastructure automation services.
you have advanced infrastructure automation and web development frameworks knowledge.
you are able to develop interim deliverables required by business until a final production solution is created. 
you continually acquire and enhance the knowledge of infrastructure automation business strategies.
you effectively plan, secure and schedule resources for business requirements and processes. 
you participate in application design walkthroughs and provide guidance to the development team.
you write business case proposals; develop test strategies and test cases, develop detailed project plans, and monitor progress against planned objectives.
you provide documentation and training to the users by defining business procedures and workflows. 
you participate in the design and implementation of system enhancements.
you coordinate projects globally.
you must be comfortable and capable of dealing with the demanding needs of the front, middle and back office users. 
you will communicate effectively with internal clients and external vendors.
you will be required to travel to various locations in toronto and stratford.
qualifications:
five years of experience with infrastructure automation. (bmc server automation suite, ibm tivoli, puppet labs)
five years of experience web development frameworks. (javascript, jquery, soap, xml, .net, web services)
advanced application build and deployment services knowledge. (ant, maven, ibm rational buildforge, sonatype nexus, microsoft tfs)
five years of experience with supporting infrastructure projects.  advanced knowledge of the project management and software development  methodologies.
experience with the following unix, windows, middleware, databases, client server or active directory 
education and accreditations:
a recognized post-graduate degree in business, computer science, mathematics or a related discipline.
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


