:
you deliver highly available and operationally stable infrastructure solutions. you ensure quality operational processes for internal clients.
you have good understanding of project delivery methodology and are experienced with managing external vendors. 
you are familiar with performance and capacity management best practices.
you manage the partnerships between scotiabank and external service providers, ensuring that service levels are met or exceeded. you communicate service information effectively as required.
you ensure that processes are maintained and followed regarding change, problem, incident and pcm.
you utilize your subject matter expertise to impact and influence strategic infrastructure service initiatives. 
you manage business and operational risks. you communicate the risks effectively to management.
you are a primary contact to facilitate communication between internal teams and the vendor.
you plan effectively and prioritize services for client requests.
you understand ongoing business requirements and work to ensure the it platforms can support changing needs.
you escalate issues to senior management effectively. you execute the communication strategy and resolve service challenges.
you interface with internal and external service delivery managers.
you manage multiple and conflicting priorities utilizing strong organizational skills.
you research new and current information technology services that may enhance productivity.
qualifications:
seven years of experience with information technology service delivery
seven years of experience with executive relationship management and support.
five years of experience managing external vendors.
five years of experience managing information technology projects.
education and accreditations:
a recognized university degree in computer science, business or a related discipline.
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


