Title:Project Leader
Location:Scarborough, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-04-24
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/ontario/it/jobid7498010-project-leader-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
complete and coordinate projects by developing and evaluating project plans and tracking progress.
results and expectations
1.
 
establish project objectives by analyzing project proposal; collaborating with management.
2.
 
establish project plan by determining time frame, funding and staffing; approving project schedule.
3.
 
organize project staff by recruiting, selecting, orienting, and training staff members; assigning responsibilities; approving contractors.
4.
 
establish and achieve financial objectives by preparing a project budget; scheduling and approving expenditures; analyzing variances; initiating corrective actions.
5.
 
approve project specifications by analyzing product design, customer requirements and performance standards; authorizing technical studies.
6.
 
confirm product performance by establishing standards and testing requirements.
7.
 
control project plan by approving design, specifications, and plan; scheduling changes.
8.
 
prepare project status reports by collecting, analyzing and summarizing information and trends.
9.
 
maintain project staff job results by coaching, counseling and disciplining employees; planning, monitoring, and appraising job results.
10.
 
maintain professional and technical knowledge by attending educational workshops; reviewing professional publications; establishing personal networks; participating in professional societies.
11.
 
maintain project time tracking on multitrack.
12.
 
keep abreast of current and emerging best practices and technologies used in project management and software delivery.
13.
 
partner with the pmo, external consultants and other departments of the bank to review and leverage best practices from these areas.
duties include:
• provide input and project leadership into enhancements and projects of assigned releases for mits-projects. including gathering necessary estimates and creating, updating and managing the project plan.
• manage the contracts with satyam - invoice payment, contractors entering time in multitrak, contract renewals, etc.
• supervise satyam contract resources: 
• assess, design and implement minor functional enhancements (once approved by the business owner)
• assist in resource management for the assigned release. 
• deal with all areas of the release management process.
• work well with other it&s areas and business partners for release implementation.
 
qualifications:
6-8 years’ experience working as an information technology senior analyst and/or leader.
must be able to lead multiple initiatives concurrently.
needs to display dexterity in managing critical applications.
quick decision making skills and self-directed
prior experience working with vendor it packages an asset.
excellent written and oral communication skills.
disciplined in development methodology and software development life cycle management.
must be flexible to adapt to a dynamic environment
education and accreditations:
bachelor’s degree in computer science or related field 
other information:
fluent english (oral and written) required
 
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


