Title:Senior Manager Human Resources – IT Contingent Workforce
Location:Scarborough, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-06-24
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/ontario/it/jobid7848285-senior-manager-human-resources-–-it-contingent-workforce-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
you provide subject matter expertise to enhance contingent workforce labour within information technology & solutions.
you are the program manager and responsible for the enterprise level project valued at $2 million. 
you promote project management best practices and manage deliverables utilizing effective communication strategies and methodologies.
you articulate desired business outcomes by communicating service level agreements, performing risk assessments and utilizing data analytics to support change management initiatives.
you create the standards for user documentation and articulate risk based testing plans effectively.
you communicate contingent labour best practices and conduct internal training sessions.
you manage and negotiate contracts with external vendors and third party suppliers. 
you are the liaison for internal hiring managers and manage the relationship with external vendors.
you communicate business strategies effectively and act as the central contact for vendors and internal client groups
you ensure external venders meet expectations and are compliant with service level agreements.
you collaborate with project managers, human resources and technology teams.
you offer subject matter expertise and promote best practices for it contingent workforce programs.
you consult on program initiatives and gather requirements for change management initiatives.
you effectively communicate operational readiness plans, transitional plans and develop creative alternatives for problem resolution.
you direct program activities and offer instruction to internal teams, junior staff and external vendors.
you facilitate steering committees and coordinate work sessions with external vendors.
you motivate teams to achieve positive results and maintain momentum throughout the project lifecycle.
you assess and provide monthly dashboard reporting for senior management and stakeholders. 
you translate hiring data into viable and operationally ready solutions and best practices.
qualifications:
7+ years of experience with information technology program and project management
7+ years of experience with enterprise level risk assessment and resolution management 
7+ years of experience communicating change management initiatives using data analytics
7+ years of experience with vendor and relationship management
experience with information technology contingent workforce programs is mandatory
experience with implementing a vendor management system is preferred
education and accreditations:
post-secondary education in human resources, business administration, or a related discipline.
pmp certification
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


