Title:Senior Network Specialist
Location:Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-05-13
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/toronto/it/jobid7599697-senior-network-specialist-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
you develop, analyze and recommend networking solutions. you prioritize and rollout technical standards to meet industry and business requirements.
you gain support from senior management to meet business and team objectives.
you perform support activities to ensure operational objectives are completed.
you manage service providers, vendors, internal and external clients.
you follow all incident and problem management policies and procedures.  you make recommendations for improvement.
you manage multiple and conflicting priorities utilizing effective time management skills.
you possess strong analytical, trouble shooting and incident management skills.
you understand project management methodologies and project delivery.
you prepare business cases and have strong documentation skills.
you communicate effectively with staff, clients and senior management.
you stay current and provide guidance on the latest network technology trends.
you work collaboratively and effectively in a team environment.
you provide excellent customer service and provide 24/7/365 support. you are part of a pager support team and will be required to respond after hours and on weekends. 
qualifications:
seven years of experience with cisco network devices. (routers, switches and firewalls)
seven years of experience with network security, wan, wi-fi and data centre technologies.
seven years of experience with operations and production support.
seven years of experience with creating visio diagrams, business cases and technical documents.
seven years of experience in managing network projects.
seven years of experience with supporting software. (microsoft, riverbed, wan optimization)
education and accreditations:
degree or diploma in computer science, telecommunications, networking or equivalent cisco certifications (ccna, ccnp, ccda, ccdp or ccie)
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


