Title:Director Service Delivery Management
Location:Scarborough, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-04-16
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/ontario/it/jobid7451077-director-service-delivery-management-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
you lead teams of 15-20 staff that deliver highly available and operationally stable infrastructure solutions.
you own quality operational processes for internal clients and are responsible for disaster back-up recovery for the canadian bank.
you are an expert on project delivery methodology and are experienced with managing external vendors. 
you champion performance and capacity management best practices. you approve capacity planning plans semi-annually.
you manage the partnerships between scotiabank and external service providers, ensuring that service levels are met or exceeded. you communicate service information effectively and partner with business units to meet changing requirements.
you ensure service delivery processes are maintained and followed regarding change, problem, incident and pcm.
you utilize your subject matter expertise to impact and influence strategic infrastructure service initiatives. 
you manage business and operational risks. you communicate the risks effectively to management.
you are a primary contact to facilitate communication between executives, internal teams and external vendors.
you plan effectively plan for the short and long term. you prioritize services for client requests through appropriate analysis and planning.
you understand ongoing business requirements and work to ensure the it platforms can support changing needs. this includes elements of banking, data processing, software currency, patch management, communication systems, planning techniques and system development methodologies.
you are familiar with mainfraime, virtualization, ldap, active directory, websphere, db2, mid-tiers, clustering, storage and load balancers.
you escalate issues to senior management effectively. you execute the communication strategy and resolve service challenges.
you interface with internal and external service delivery managers.
you manage multiple and conflicting priorities utilizing strong organizational skills.
you research new and current information technology services that may enhance productivity.
qualifications:
ten years of experience with information technology service delivery.
ten years of experience with executive relationship management and support.
seven years of experience managing external vendors.
seven years of experience managing information technology projects.
seven years of disaster recovery and back-up planning.
education and accreditations:
a recognized university degree in computer science, business or a related discipline.
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


