Title:Technical Specialist– Software Configuration Management
Location:Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-04-14
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/toronto/it/jobid7434810-technical-specialist–-software-configuration-management-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
you will analyze user requirements and architecture documents for complex projects to support infrastructure automation services.
you have advanced scm (software configuration management) and alm (application lifecycle management) process knowledge.
you design solutions to meet middleware and application lifecycle requirements.
you provide interim deliverables required by business until a final production solution is created. 
you continually acquire and enhance the knowledge of infrastructure automation business strategies.
you effectively lead, design, plan, secure and schedule resources for assigned initiatives.
you participate in system design walkthroughs and provide guidance to the development team.
you develop scripts, schedule and action system testing.
you create documentation and transfer knowledge to business partners.
you communicate sdlc/alm service rollout plans.
you perform administrative and maintenance support activities.
you will communicate effectively with internal clients and external vendors.
you may be required to travel.  
you are part of a rotation and will carry a pager with on-call support.  
qualifications:
advanced knowledge of application code versioning, binary management and alm tools (ibm rational clearcase, sonatype nexus, microsoft team foundation server, apache subversion)  
five years of experience with application build automation tools (ibm ant, ibm rational buildforge, apache maven, jenkins)
five years of experience with supporting infrastructure projects.  advanced knowledge of project management and software development methodologies.
five years of experience with scripting languages (korn shell, ruby/jruby, perl, jython/python)
experience with the unix, windows, middleware, databases, client server or active directory.
education and accreditations:
a recognized post-graduate degree in business, computer science, mathematics or a related discipline.
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


