Title:Senior Business Analyst –Credit Risk
Location:Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-04-01
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/toronto/it/jobid7361439-senior-business-analyst-–credit-risk-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
you will gather requirements for complex projects) to meet the business needs of global risk management. 
you have advanced financial and technological knowledge in market conventions and valuation methods.  you will assist in resolving problems by applying this knowledge to the design of methodologies, models and systems solutions.  
you are able to develop interim deliverables required by business until a final production solution is created.
you effectively plan, secure and schedule resources for business requirements and processes. 
you develop test strategies and test cases, develop detailed project plans, and monitor progress against planned objectives.
you provide documentation and training to the users by defining business procedures and workflows.you provide support to all business units globally.
you participate in the design and implement systems enhancements, and coordinate projects across multiple times zones.
you must be comfortable and capable of dealing with the demanding needs of the front office and risk management users.
qualifications:
five years of experience with financial markets and financial instruments.
five years of derivative product knowledge.   this will include otc derivatives (equity, interest rate, credit and commodities).
five years of capital markets business analysis experience.  preferably in group treasury foreign exchange, fixed income, credit and market risk. 
three years of experience with information technology projects with a strong understanding of the project management and software development methodologies.
three years of experience in market valuation methods, risk management methodologies, system development techniques and modelling tools. 
you possess strong leadership potential with excellent interpersonal, communication, and negotiation skills.
advanced knowledge of riskwatch, sql and unix is preferred.
education and accreditations:
a recognized degree in business, mathematics or a related discipline.
 
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


