Title:Director Business Analysis
Location:Scarborough, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-06-05
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/ontario/it/jobid7753418-director-business-analysis-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
1.
 
independently resolve highly complex, multi-faceted problems, which are often unstructured and without precedent to meet the business needs of the end users.
-
 
apply expert financial and technological knowledge to the design of methodologies, models, and/or systems solutions. 
-
 
may involve rapid prototyping, with requirements and solutions developed on an iterative basis, that provide interim deliverables until a final production solution is created.
2.
 
manage major, multi-disciplinary projects to implement solutions to business problems. 
-
 
involves planning, securing, and scheduling resources
-
 
oversee the defining of business requirements, processes and preparation of business case proposals
-
 
oversee the development of testing, conversion, and implementation strategies
-
 
oversee the development of detailed project plans, the monitoring of progress against planned objectives, the financial review, and securing consensus and co-operation from users and senior management
3. provide business support to all units within the scope of accountability. this is made more challenging due to differences in time zones and the variation in the business lines.
  - including new and existing product structuring, risk measurement and management, ad hoc queries and mis, user training, and implementing and operationalizing new systems, processes and procedures including enhancements.
- managing vendor relationships, contracts and system maintenance arrangements.
- directing and ensuring a high level of steady state production support
4.
 
continually acquire and enhance knowledge of both the bank’s and the division's business strategies and policies, risk management practices and methodologies, product offerings, financial markets, financial instruments, regulatory requirements, back office processes, and rapidly changing technology to be able to provide effective business solutions, services and support to the end user business lines.
qualifications:
the individual is responsible for managing multiple small projects and large projects concurrently. the individual is also responsible for the day to day management of the business analysis and project staff. the individual is expected to identify strategies and objectives and act to implement them on his/her own initiative. the individual is guided by bank policy and receives broad direction from the vice president.  the individual is expected to function independently to ensure that the department's objectives are met
education and accreditations:
the incumbent must hold a relevant and recognized degree and proven it experience with an emphasis on highly complex systems/business initiatives
other information:
position is located at 300 consilium place.
 
the individual will be responsible for supporting all technology across canadian banking. they must have 10 to 15 years of it and/or business industry work experience, which includes at least 3 to 5 years of experience in managing teams or projects. typically requires advanced technical and business knowledge in multiple disciplines, technologies, and processes. 
the individual must have expertise in incident management and ticketing system managing very complex business and technical processes and their implications across the enterprise. 
the individual must have expertise in project management disciplines/protocols.
 
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


