:
accountable for leading the it service automation team in the following:
•
 
provide consulting and guidance on project initiatives including business case preparation and developing creative/alternative approaches to problem resolution.
•
 
identify and confirm project leads from all required stakeholders to ensure responsibilities and deliverables are understood by each.
•
 
define project governance; identify senior stakeholders & sponsors to form a steering committee (should it be necessary). work with project sponsor to prepare appropriate information for dissemination to the steering committee.
•
 
hold meetings and work sessions as necessary to ensure that project management deliverables are met i.e. project planning, risk management, issue management, status meetings
•
 
provide support to client including business case preparation and developing creative/alternative approaches to problem resolution. 
•
 
motivating the itsa team and maintaining the momentum of the project(s) against background of changing and occasionally conflicting priorities
•
 
ongoing communication of project status, completing the monthly project status reports and escalating issues to the operations sponsor, the svp and the evp, as required.
•
 
ensure the documentation and archiving of project activities, deliverables, tools and findings and for use in future projects
qualifications:
1.
 
relationship  management
2.
 
issue management
3.
 
scope planning
4.
 
scope change control
5.
 
pm process management
6.
 
risk assessment
other information:
5+ years of experience in a management capacity with emphasizes on relationship management
itil foundations v3 certified
knowledge of itsm tools and processes
effective project management and leadership skills are essential
proven ability to manage complex and multiple projects with tight and conflicting deadlines in a fast paced and dynamic work environment.
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


