
scotiabank helps to build bright futures worldwide through ethical banking practices, environmental awareness and a commitment to communities.
global banking and markets has helped the bank deliver excellent returns to shareholders and build one of the strongest capital bases in the canadian financial services market. this business line offers lending, investment banking and capital markets products to corporate, government and institutional clients. it provides full-service coverage across the nafta region, as well as a niche focus in selected markets globally.
research associates play an integral role in the equity research department by providing crucial assistance to our equity research analysts.  individuals in this role are learning and developing the techniques and skills necessary for investment analysis and research of securities. the research associate works closely with the research analyst to develop financial forecasts and provide recommendations on particular stocks. associates typically gain an in-depth understanding of the financial and operational issues within a particular sector, gaining valuable skills, knowledge, and relationships. this position is based in montreal.
 
 
qualifications & skills:
a university degree in business with a specialization in finance
an mba, or ca/cpa designation or enrollment in/completion of the chartered financial analyst (cfa) program would be an asset
capital markets knowledge/experience would be an asset
experience in analyzing financial statements and valuing companies is required
strong written and verbal communication skills
strong accounting, financial modeling, and analytical skills
excellent command of microsoft office, with a particular emphasis on excel
2 to 3 years of experience 
in a corporate development, m&a, financial or analytical capacity
 would be an asset 
experience using bloomberg or factset would be an asset 
ability to multi-task and manage several on-going projects at the same time
ability to perform under pressure and meet tight deadlines, sometimes for extended periods of time
self-motivated, hardworking and detail-oriented
 
major accountabilities:
work closely with a senior analyst on the production of equity research publications 
conduct primary research from industry and financial sources
create and maintain financial models and industry databases
generate tables and graphs
handle enquiries from institutional investors
liaise with sales, trading and other areas of the firm within regulatory guidelines
 
evening and weekend work will be required.
 
 
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


