Title:Business Analysis Consultant – Regulatory & Compliance
Location:Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-06-05
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/toronto/it/jobid7753411-business-analysis-consultant-–-regulatory-﹠-compliance-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
you are a compliance and regulatory reporting subject matter expert.
you use your risk management and technical knowledge as a business consultant in the design, development, and quality assurance of significant projects. 
you independently resolve complex business issues. you will participate in project implementation activities.
you lead the activities of project staff and contractors. you will coach, mentor, and transfer knowledge as required.
you continually acquire and enhance your knowledge of business strategies, risk management products, and financial markets.
you have a solid understanding of front, middle and back office operations. 
you communicate effectively with senior management, internal clients and external vendors.
you are able to prioritize multiple and conflicting activities.
you may be required to travel.
qualifications:
five years of business analysis experience. 
five years of capital markets experience with advanced knowledge of derivatives, foreign exchange and treasury.
five years of experience in market valuation methods, risk management methodologies and models. you will be an expert on performance measurement, current and anticipated regulatory requirements, and workflows among the front, middle, and back offices.
five years of experience with information technology projects with a strong understanding of the project management and software development methodologies, including agile.
you possess strong leadership potential with excellent interpersonal, communication, and negotiation skills.
advanced knowledge of unix and sql is preferred in this role.
knowledge of defect tracking systems and version control tools are an asset
education and accreditations:
a recognized under-graduate degree in business, computers, economics, mathematics or a related discipline.
 
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


