:
you will research, analyze and gather requirements for complex projects to support the wealth management team and supported business units.
you provide subject matter expertise with asset management and portfolio accounting process flow methodology to produce data requirements (attributes, sources, mapping, etc.) based on consuming system and business unit needs.
you define test strategies, test plans and test cases for the consolidated transaction repository implementation and establish operational qa methods to ensure the highest quality data.
you work with technology to define and customize tools and reports to support quality activities. 
you are able to develop interim deliverables required by business until a final production solution is created. 
you continually acquire and enhance the knowledge of business strategies.
you effectively plan, secure and schedule resources for business requirements and processes. 
you participate in application design walkthroughs and provide guidance to the development team.
you write business case proposals; develop test strategies and test cases, develop detailed project plans, and monitor progress against planned objectives.
you provide documentation and training to the users by defining business procedures and workflows. 
you participate in the design and implementation of system enhancements.
you must be comfortable and capable of dealing with the demanding needs of the front, middle and back office users. 
you will communicate effectively with internal clients and external vendors.
you may be required to travel.
qualifications:
five years of asset management and portfolio accounting business analysis experience.
five years of experience with delivering information technology projects, and a strong understanding of the project management and software development  methodologies.
five years of experience in market valuation methods, risk management methodologies and models. strong understanding of risk management practices, systems development techniques, real-time analytical and formal modelling tools.
knowledge of asset management systems: sunguard investone, mpower, ss&c, eagle investment accounting, charles river development (crims) and simcorp dimension products is highly preferred.  
education and accreditations:
a recognized post-graduate degree in business, computer science, mathematics or a related discipline.
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


