Title:Senior Solutions Architect
Location:Scarborough, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-06-09
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/ontario/it/jobid7766478-senior-solutions-architect-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
1.  assess infrastructure needs, and lead the design and deployment of all new infrastructure solutions to meet those needs 
2.  oversee design and estimation of all major projects 
?
 
ensure solutions improve operational efficiency, reduce operating risk and deliver quality service
?
 
partner with solutions providers (e.g., ibm / tech mahindra) and other development areas to effectively develop appropriate solutions
?
 
provide solution and product innovation 
3.  develop the technology roadmap for retail core banking technology  
?
 
establish the long-term (3-5 years) technology vision for the department and work with other development areas to ensure the roadmap is in line with the overall group and it&s strategic objectives.
?
 
assess technology currency and develop improvement plans
?
 
play an active role in understanding industry trends and new technologies, and provide leadership in driving cost risk technologies reduction thru innovative technology solutions
?
 
work with strategic suppliers to ensure that scotiabank benefits from leading industry practices and technologies   
?
 
clearly communicate the vision and technology roadmap to senior management and stakeholders
4.  establish and maintain development standards across the department 
qualifications:
excellent relationship skills 
highly skilled and knowledgeable in complex host mainframe technology environments 
fifteen years of it experience in high-volume, complex, customer-oriented it environment 
demonstrated in-depth knowledge of it service processes.
good understanding of banking business applications
an excellent communicator - both written and verbal
keen interest in new and emerging technologies
ability to influence at the senior management level
ability to assist in the management  and develop of a large team of it professionals
ability to create bridge between multiple application development and business areas to deliver successful projects
strategic thinking - understands long term business strategies and can create technology solutions that are aligned to them
change leadership - able to lead and or influence major  change programs
innovative - ability to see how future technologies can be applied to help drive business objectives
extremely detailed oriented, methodical.
ability to translate highly complex concepts for peers and customers.
demonstrated the ability to influence senior management up to svp level.
education and accreditations:
degree in computer science, engineering or mathamatics prefered or equivalent experience. 
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


