Title:Executive Assistant (Supporting IT Executives)
Location:Scarborough, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-06-15
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/ontario/it/jobid7796387-executive-assistant-(supporting-it-executives)-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
1. to manage the business affairs of the etmo office in an expert and professional manner.  manage high profile and complex office calendar, intercepting and redirecting calls, coordinating travel arrangement for etmo senior staff.   manage multi-person workloads to ensure assignments are completed accurately and meet given deadlines.  the senior administrative officer works under the broad direction of the senior vice-president.  the senior administrative officer must use initiative and good judgment in scheduling work and in developing efficient methods of operating.  the senior administrative officer must be relied upon to follow through to completion all assigned duties or by delegating to others.  
 
2. the senior administrative officer is predominantly focused on managing the business affairs of executive management within the division.  work performed is often of a highly confidential nature, spanning the division in terms of scope and impact, requiring a high degree of discretion.  the individual must be fully familiar with the executive’s schedules, overall preferences, typical work week and overall direction on general issues in order to make decisions regarding scheduling and responding to questions.   the incumbent is assigned to manage and execute various initiatives on behalf of the executive management or division.
3.  excellent time management and organization skills are essential as the incumbent must typically perform a variety of tasks within a very short notice and often with conflicting priorities.  accuracy, good judgment, professional image and mature demeanor are essential, as well as excellent verbal and written communication skills.  
4. to manage and provide a leadership role by offering direction and support to the administrative staff within the department relative to the prioritization and execution of daily responsibilities, serving as resource for team scotia community programs, coordinator for 4 etmo quarterly meetings.   coordinator for quarterly compliance & year end reports to evp via security.  
5.  manage miscellaneous project support for etmo such as coordinating various departmental functions i.e.:  real estate, badge holder & designated ao listings, premises and conference rooms.  
qualifications:
manage e-mails upon request, delegate & prioritize as appropriate. 
arrange/schedule appointments/meetings on behalf of svp, anticipating scheduling conflicts/problems and providing alternatives.  cognizant of travel time between 2 offices, 2201ee & 44king.
arranging bookings for boardroom/conference rooms.
arrange for catering.
arrange for technical equipment and materials for meetings as appropriate. 
distribute mail, open, sort, date and organizing incoming and outgoing mail.  
verify, prepare, and submit invoices, track budgets including training budgets. 
take minutes and agenda distribution, distribute completed minutes.
book travel arrangements, ensuring all business requirements are met.
screen all calls and refer incoming calls/visitors using a high degree of discretion.
•
 
10 years’ senior experience reporting to executive management, senior vice president, chief technology officer.
•
 
expert knowledge of ms office suite. 
education and accreditations:
undergraduate degree or college diploma
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


