Title:Senior Business Analyst – Group Treasury
Location:Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-03-31
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/toronto/it/jobid7353432-senior-business-analyst-–-group-treasury-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
you will research, analyze and gather requirements for complex group treasury projects
you have advanced regulations and capital markets systems knowledge.
you are able to develop interim deliverables required by business until a final production solution is created. you manage business continuity planning.
you continually acquire and enhance the knowledge of business strategies.
you effectively plan, secure and schedule resources for business requirements and processes. 
you participate in application design walkthroughs and provide guidance to the development team.
you write business case proposals; develop test strategies and test cases, develop detailed project plans, and monitor progress against planned objectives.
you provide documentation and training to the users by defining business procedures and workflows. 
you participate in the design and implementation of system enhancements.
you coordinate projects globally.
you must be comfortable and capable of dealing with the demanding needs of the front, middle and back office users. 
you will communicate effectively with internal clients and external vendors.
qualifications:
advanced knowledge with risk and liquidity terminology
five years of experience with delivering information technology projects, and a strong understanding of the project management and software development  methodologies.
strong understanding of risk management practices, systems development techniques, real-time analytical and formal modelling tools.
education and accreditations:
a recognized post-graduate degree in business, computer science, mathematics or a related discipline.
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


