Title:Business Solutions Expert Derivatives
Location:Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Date Posted:2015-05-11
URL:http://jobs.scotiabank.com/ca/toronto/it/jobid7585573-business-solutions-expert-derivatives-jobs
-------------------------------------------
:
you will research, analyze and gather requirements for complex projects to support the derivative trading platforms.
you have advanced derivative and trading knowledge.
you are able to develop interim deliverables required by business until a final production solution is created. 
you continually acquire and enhance the knowledge of business strategies.
you effectively plan, secure and schedule resources for business requirements and processes. 
you participate in application design walkthroughs and provide guidance to the development team.
you write business case proposals; develop test strategies and test cases, develop detailed project plans, and monitor progress against planned objectives.
you provide documentation and training to the users by defining business procedures and workflows. 
you participate in the design and implementation of system enhancements.
you coordinate projects globally.
you must be comfortable and capable of dealing with the demanding needs of the front, middle and back office users. 
you will communicate effectively with internal clients and external vendors.
you may be required to travel.
you manage internal staff and contract rources.
qualifications:
eight years of experience with financial markets and financial instruments. 
five years of derivative product knowledge.   this will include otc derivatives (equity, interest rate, credit and commodities).
five years of experience with delivering information technology projects, and a strong understanding of the project management and software development  methodologies.
eight years of experience in market valuation methods, risk management methodologies and models. you will be an expert on performance measurement, current and anticipated regulatory requirements, and workflows among the front, middle, and back offices.
strong understanding of risk management practices, systems development techniques, real-time analytical and formal modelling tools.
education and accreditations:
a recognized post-graduate degree in business, computer science, mathematics or a related discipline.
 
scotiabank is an equal opportunity employer and welcomes applications from all interested parties. we thank you for your interest, however, only those candidates selected for an interview will be contacted. no agencies please.


