Title:Electronic Trading Program Manager
Location:Jersey City, NJ, US
Date Posted:2015-06-11
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Jersey-City-Electronic-Trading-Program-Manager-NJ-07097/267081800/
-------------------------------------------
description:




coordinate the efforts of the multi-disciplined delivery teams, e.g. business analysis, development, quality assurance and application/client support; to ensure effective and timely delivery of product on non-par level projects


provide regular status updates to our senior business partners, and ensure the direction of the business is understood by all team members.


develop subject matter expertise to answer inquiries from business sponsors and constituents without the need to refer back to developers or bas.


immediately escalate known issues and concerns to key stakeholders.


ensure that it staff have all necessary resources to be successful and to remove any impediments or distractions.


maintain composure and confidence to face off against demanding business users and provide pushback on potential scope creep.


ownership to strive for excellence and never settling for average results.


work with business and technology stakeholders to ensure effective prioritization of requests across platform.


support the dev leads within global equity technology electronic trading by providing project management services on non-par level initiatives that span multiple systems (e.g. venue launches, can white label, hardware ordering)


coordinate budget and financial planning across electronic trading technology investments


create and maintain dashboard for tracking of enhancement requests in-line with pmo framework




 


required skills:




10+ years of experience in program management within electronic trading/front office/equity markets.


strong knowledge of sdlc, scrum master and agile framework.


strong experience delivering technology solutions within a front office trading environment.


excellent verbal and written communication skills.


strong experience in documenting brd, and frd.


degree in computer science, engineering, finance or an equivalent.




 


preferred skills:




we are looking for an ambitious candidate who is looking for a challenging role with great growth opportunities


experience working with business users/clients/developers to perform analysis and recommend solutions.


ability to plan work and keep to a schedule.


the successful candidate will be able to work as part of a dynamic group, interact effectively with technical systems and business personnel, adapt/integrate new technologies and broaden the scope of his/her mandate as required to meet the needs of the business




 


 


*li-ac


 


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


job summary


city:
  
jersey city
 


address:
  
30 hudson
 


work hours/week:
  
40+
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
regular - u.s.
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
exempt
 


people manager:
  
yes
 


job posting end date:
  
04/30/2015
 


req id:
  
89756


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


 


 


