Title:Business Analyst- Mortgages
Location:Jersey City, NJ, US
Date Posted:2015-06-20
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Jersey-City-Business-Analyst-Mortgages-NJ-07097/268989200/
-------------------------------------------
purposes.


understanding of regulatory and compliance requirements for mortgages backed securities products.


thorough knowledge of structured products such as cmo, cdo, clo and other derivatives products (ed futures, bond futures).


must be proficient in software products such as  visio, excel, project, and word.


capable of writing and producing functional requirements for regulatory  s.


experience with bloomberg terminal for securities analysis.


able to collaborate with different business/user groups and technology teams.


strong client facing skills.


self-managed and results-oriented with sense of ownership is required.


excellent written and oral communication skills.


organizational skills needed to handle multiple, parallel assignments.




 


*li-ac


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
jersey city
 


address:
  
30 hudson
 


work hours/week:
  
40+
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
exempt
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
11/30/2015
 


req id:
  
90400


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


