Title:U.S. Head - Regulatory Reporting Technology
Location:Jersey City, NJ, US
Date Posted:2015-06-18
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Jersey-City-U_S_-Head-Regulatory-Reporting-Technology-NJ-07097/274555100/
purpose


the u.s. head of regulatory technology partners with technology and aligned business and compliance functions, and finance to develop and manage technology required for the production, analysis and control of non-financial regulatory reporting.


 


primary responsibilities




assist in defining technology strategy, application architecture and prioritizations for large programs such as cat.


generate and synthesizes the technology function’s input to impact assessments of new or changed regulations.


lead the technology functions establishment of a new dedicated team to support centralized regulatory operations.


ensure effective, appropriate and efficient change management processes are in place with respect to upstream a partners that provide data.


provide overall project and program management for u.s. regulatory technology. 
	


ensure estimates are accurate, achievable and defensible


align capacity with funding and align delivery commitments with capacity


provide management and business sponsors with transparency on progress, issues and financials vs. plan


partner with it qa to ensure comprehensive sit


partner with business sponsors to define appropriate uat plans and provided the needed environmental and tool support and utilization for scenario, expected results and defect tracking






ensure the generation of performance metrics/kpi as defined by the business


lead the team’s efforts to design, build and deploy software changes in response to brds received from business partners


ensure deployment of changes is in accordance with rbc’s change management policies


monitor and addresses the currency of the hardware and infrastructure software stack to ensure plans and funding are in place for needed upgrades in advance of risks of out of support conditions


partner with the business and it run the bank to make sure any post-production delivery issues (delays, defects, etc.) are appropriately logged and escalated


manage the team’s delivery of defect fixes with appropriate urgency and control


provide executive level updates on strategy, budget, project delivery, controls, risks, etc.


support the regional technology teams, including helping manage regional issue and risk management, cross-team coordination, global team communication, skills improvement and knowledge sharing, and regional people processes


drive planning, not just budgeting, at various management levels.


articulate technology plans.


ensure timetable and deliverable schedules are understood and communicated.


organize required reporting for business review sessions.




 


managerial excellence




ensure that employees understand rbc vision, as well as support and reinforce targeted behaviours that contribute to rbc goals.


provide focus and clarity in establishing individual goals, driving performance management, supporting career development and rewarding strong performance.


leverage the value in unit, department, and enterprise wide teams to develop better solutions and achieve a cross enterprise mindset.


accept and successfully execute change while supporting employees through the process, and keeping them focused on business priorities.




 


job specifications
:


qualifications:




extensive project and program experience with a proven record of delivery.


good understanding of capital markets products and business processes.


sound background and experience in basic financial accounting principles and practices of a capital markets firm


complete understanding of the project management life cycle and processes to be followed throughout and good understanding of agile


excellent communication and influencing skills, able to communicate effectively at the md level.


excellent analysis and problem solving skills.


ability to operate effectively in a matrix management environment.


superb organisational skills and able to produce project and program artefacts of the highest quality.


able to understand, explain and present complex technical ideas to both technical and non-technical audiences at all levels in a persuasive and convincing manner.


able to analyse and explain the risks involved in deploying technology solutions to solve business or organizational problems.


promotes effective teamwork with open communication channels.


proactive and sophisticated management of key stakeholders.


able to establish and maintain strong working relationship across relevant cross lob technology, operations business and compliance teams.


able to define and manage plans taking end to end ownership and full accountability for meeting project delivery dates.




 


*li-ac


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
jersey city
 


address:
  
30 hudson street
 


work hours/week:
  
40+
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
senior manager/director
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
exempt
 


people manager:
  
yes
 


job posting end date:
  
11/16/2015
 


req id:
  
92122


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


 


 


