Title:Senior IT Auditor – Application Systems
Location:Jersey City, NJ, US
Date Posted:2015-06-25
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Jersey-City-Senior-IT-Auditor-Application-Systems-NJ-07097/269768000/
-------------------------------------------
purpose
:  to provide independent, objective risk assessment and evaluation around the effectiveness of risk management practices, internal controls and it governance processes over the it applications, enterprise-wide. helps to create solutions that enable units to comply with financial and regulatory requirements, follow rbc policies, and implement industry best practices. examine the audit customer’s control environment to determine whether it effectively mitigates risk and to recommend value-added changes where appropriate.


 


primary responsibilities


 


 examination of controls:




reviews and assesses the condition of controls against established criteria.


evaluates and verifies controls meet established assurance objectives.


maintains working paper evidence of the examination of controls.


identify control weaknesses and highlight areas for potential process improvements to audit clients.


follow up with management for corrective action on significant deficiencies.


provide input for development and/or maintenance of comprehensive audit programs to guide the audit reviews.




 


value added auditing:




provide value by helping management on all levels in to applications to identify and mitigate operational it risk in the area of application integrity and change.


undertake a consultative style with audit clients to improve risk management and control environment.


evaluate and report on the relationship between business process and supporting application processing.


demonstrate a good understanding of it application integrity and change controls and application support, practices, technologies and the underlying risks to the business stakeholders.


in regular contact with audit clients to understand business developments and emerging risk and control issues.


evaluates and reports the impact of inadequate controls.


conducts audit work with the minimum of client disruption.


ensures audits are conducted with the minimum of customer disruption.




 


teamwork & co-operation:




cooperates with other auditors/audit groups to effectively plan and execute audits.


openly and willingly shares information and coaches other auditors.


takes initiative in identifying and undertaking tasks impacting team performance.


escalate audit progress issues to the audit lead on a timely basis.




 


 impact & influence:




earn the respect of audit clients for knowledge applied and professional style.


communicate effectively and efficiently with audit clients.


prepare timely, credible and substantive it application audit issues.


obtain client buy-in to issues raised through clear presentation of facts concerning control breakdowns.




 


 


key competencies required


education
: undergraduate degree or equivalent. 


 


professional
: certified information systems auditor (cisa) designation or obtain within one year of joining ias.  other certifications/designations (cpa, cia, cfa, itil, cissp, cism) would be an asset.


 


experience
:  minimum of three-five years of it audit or it experience.


 


*li-at1


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
jersey city
 


address:
  
30 hudson street
 


work hours/week:
  
40+
 


work environment:
  
regional office
 


employment type:
  
regular - u.s.
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
exempt
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
05/25/2016
 


req id:
  
90669


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


