Title:Project Manager - Risk IT
Location:Jersey City, NJ, US
Date Posted:2015-06-04
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Jersey-City-Project-Manager-Risk-IT-NJ-07097/271643600/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


 


manage software development projects in the risk technology area, supporting group risk management (grm). plans, directs and coordinates activities of assigned projects to ensure project goals or objectives are accomplished within approved time frame, scope and budget.  independently and effectively manages assigned projects.


 


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles


 


primary responsibilities


 


project planning & execution




initiates projects and manages the definition of high level scope.


develops integrated baseline project plans adapting estimating models as required, documents estimating assumptions, refines plans and manages performance against them.


provides schedule and costs forecasts including risk based provisions.


identifies resources and skills required.


captures and tracks metrics and performs trend analysis.


manages project scope/requirements changes, multiple and competing demands and priorities determining and conveying impact on budget, time and risk using appropriate fact-based metrics/assumptions.


identifies and manages project costs and budgets.


anticipates operational and tactical risks and tracks them using the appropriate methodology.


raises and tracks issues and conflicts, removes barriers, resolves issues of medium complexity involving stakeholders and escalates to appropriate level where required.


identifies and resolves/escalates potential conflicts between long-term architecture direction and project constraints.


manages project closure initiatives.


reports on project status using industry standards and the rbc toolset.




 


relationships & communication 




provides superior client experience and strengthens relationship with business partner.


collaborates with colleagues across the organization to get things done.


manages project dependencies.


manages project communications including status reports to all stakeholders.


provides senior management with timely updates on project issues.


manages external vendors and third parties relationships at the project level.




 


managerial excellence




sets direction and vision for the project team.


builds project management capability on the team.


manages performance, reward and recognition.


promotes a mindset for sustained success, growth and diversity.


spearheads and guides people through changes.


develops self.




 


education &/or experience


required




demonstrated leadership ability


successfully and simultaneously managed a minimum of 3  mid-size projects (budget range 3 – 5 mm cad) with emphasis on some of the following:
	


high impact or business risk


uncertain business requirements


pmp designation (an asset)


undergraduate degree or equivalent experience








preferred




experience in financial services, either in consulting or full time capacity.


experience managing projects in the credit risk space


level 3 chartered financial analyst (cfa) designation.


financial risk manager (frm) designation.


master business administration (mba) graduate


master business administration (mba) graduate




 


*li-ac


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
jersey city
 


address:
  
30 hudson street
 


work hours/week:
  
40
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
regular - u.s.
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
exempt
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
12/01/2015
 


req id:
  
91165


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


 


 


