Title:Project Coordinator
Location:Jersey City, NJ, US
Date Posted:2015-06-19
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Jersey-City-Project-Coordinator-NJ-07097/274802600/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


responsible, accountable for successful project management support and framework delivery


 


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles


 


primary responsibilities




resource is fully engaged with short term or long term projects and is aligned to pmo


will support the project manager(s) in coordinating deliverables and meeting project scope and will own assigned tasks for the entire project, or portions of project.


responsibilities will include any aspect of the project including but not limited to co-ordinations, follow-ups, documentation, auditing, communication plan, governance, data entry, processing forms etc.


assist with requests coming into the pmo for infrastructure audits


has good communication skills and be proficient in handling interactions between delivery teams, clients and the program team.


resource has basic understanding of pmo concepts, pmlc process and artifacts


liaise with various internal teams and external vendors.


prepare various status reports and metrics for management review.


help maintain project management deliverables.


metrics –collect and report project metrics as required.


portfolio and reporting process creation, efficiency driving, and focus on regional compliance and implementation


focus on further globalization alignment with all regions and business units




 


job specifications


relevant position requirements, such as specific “product” or “process” knowledge, previous “specialist” experience (be fairly specific); specific “technical” skills and how well developed these need to be (written communication skills, people management, etc.)  technical and behavioural competencies can be included if appropriate.


 


systems knowledge




general knowledge of relevant technology


general knowledge of it standards, methodologies, itil, and audit requirements


knowledge of microsoft office products and their usage




 


business knowledge




general knowledge of factors affecting business


general knowledge of trends in the marketplace/ technology




 


 


*li-ac


 


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
jersey city
 


address:
  
30 hudson street
 


work hours/week:
  
40+
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
exempt
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
10/19/2015
 


req id:
  
92186


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


