Title:Market Data Software Developer
Location:Jersey City, NJ, US
Date Posted:2015-06-19
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Jersey-City-Market-Data-Software-Developer-NJ-07097/274766800/
purpose:
  the   of this role is to provide software development support for market data apis as part of the market data operations and engineering (mdoe) team.  liaison between market data developers, technology staff and management to ensure high quality and availability of the various market data distribution and messaging platforms we employ.


 


primary responsibilities




provide software component design and api guidance for market data platforms used at rbccm, including the development of wrappers to the apis to enforce specific features and standards.


developer is responsible for research and documentation of new and existing software functionality and technologies.


perform product and component testing for all software modifications.


responsible for example code and testing tools for using the api’s.


maintain and support market data api documentation and guidance for developer community.


ensure production and development problems, bugs, system problems/changes are documented and requests are acted upon promptly. keep senior management advised of situations that may compromise agreed deliverables and/or affect production systems.


develop extensions to enhance  market data monitoring systems.


provides technical guidance and training to staff members and development user communities regarding software apis.


participate in the evaluation of test results ensuring that software changes accurately meet business requirements and process service criteria, fit into the technical environment and that existing operations are not adversely impacted.




 


job specifications

general




good communication skills.


planning, organizing, and negotiating skills.


demonstrated competency in crafting efficient and effective solutions to diverse and complex business problems.


good teamwork skills to allow interaction with both the local and global mdoe teams.




 


technical skills




hands on/working knowledge of java, c#/.net and c++. 


relevant experience in one or more of solace, rfa, dacs, exegy, tibco rv, tibco ems and other market data apis.


knowledge of unix/linux, windows, and networking.


knowledge of structured and scripting languages: java,  c#/.net, c++, perl, python, php, bash, etc.


knowledge of sql and nosql databases.


knowledge of systems monitoring and capacity planning technologies for low latency environments (geneos, rai)


experience with data visualization tools (e.g. tableau and/or spotfire)


knowledge of exchange datafeeds provided by the main north american equity markets (nyse, nasdaq, bats, directedge, cme etc.) and the technologies used to deliver those feeds in both client and co-located facilities.


experience of underlying networking and server technologies used in low latency infrastructures (10/40/100gbe, linux, tcp/udp offloading cards, etc.)


knowledge of various messaging systems including but not limited to solace, tibco ems/rv, websphere mq.




 


business knowledge




understanding of capital markets business lines, particularly the global equity, foreign exchange (fx) and fixed income businesses.


understanding of market data concepts: datafeeds, stock exchanges, market data and messaging middleware/distribution, idbs and vendor reporting requirements.




 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
jersey city
 


address:
  
30 hudson street
 


work hours/week:
  
40+
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
exempt
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
10/19/2015
 


req id:
  
92153


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


