Title:HR Officer Data Management and Reporting, Shared Services (25 hours p/w, 12 month Contract
Location:London, LND, GB
Date Posted:2015-06-16
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/London-HR-Officer-Data-Management-and-Reporting%2C-Shared-Services-%28Part-time%2C-Fixed-Term-Contract%29-LND/273914900/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


 




to carry out administration responsibilities and have accountability for employee reporting in an accurate and timely manner;


as a key member of the hr services team, this role has responsibility for the integrity of data within the ci hr services systems;


to be accountable and provide support and cover to the assistant manager, reporting & data management & team lead & senior manager, hr services,


to support and contribute to hr services with specific projects as and when required.




 


 


primary responsibilities


 


provides support to the bi reporting team, hr business partners, hr advisors and coe’s (centres of expertise). 


 


duties include:


 




provide a confidential timely service by producing accurate and well presented reports from own initiative or from standard templates within agreed sla’s;


learn hris systems world service, adp, service now, employee & manager self service to enable support on queries.


preparation, manipulation and creation of regular accurate management information. manage analyse, manipulate and create complex reporting requirements as required for the business, manage and produce scheduled hr reporting as per the schedule calendar within set deadlines;


play an active role in all hr operations technology, related issues and projects impacting hr data.


collation of data & management of reporting requirements to meet legislative requirements  to mitigate risk to the company


problem solve and manage queries from key hr stakeholders, managers and employees;


responsible for managing day to day business as usual reporting requests and queries from hr / employees / managers via the service now online work flow tool


produce all absence metrics and absence costings on monthly & quarterly basis & create statistical requirements for wmi board reports.


primary contact for all sap data integrity (canadian hr system) data queries & responsible for business as usual sap data flow reporting process


manage & maintain reporting folder on sharepoint sites as and when required.


creation of global and service now metrics monthly data scorecards including people wmi dashboard.


carry out any other hr reporting / administration when required;


involvement in project teams as assigned by the hr services management team;


take ownership of the creation, implementation, training, improvement and maintenance of hr reporting procedures/checklists to ensure all required tasks are documented;


act as a reporting stakeholder hr services project work as and when required;


support the training needs, coaching and mentoring of colleagues and the business ensuring the appropriate technical skills and expertise is developed as and when required


manage accuracy and execution of changes required to hr services pages on hr systems;


support other areas of hr services such as hr officers and hr administrators at peak times of the year for activities such as restructures, absence management, system maintenance, enhancements, compensation processes and scanning.


cover for uk scheduled reporting when the hr analyst in uk is on vacation or out of the office




 


authorities, impact, risk


 




although the role has no designated authorities in terms of budget, the success of the hr officer data management & reporting will have a significant and positive impact on the confidentiality and control of hr data and the reputation of the department.


 




           


key relationships


 




hr services colleagues;


hr services reporting team bi


hr units (bp’s & hra’s) and internal centres of expertise (learning, recruitment, employee relations);


business managers and employees – internal;


marketing, finance, compliance, it – internal;


other jurisdictions (guernsey, uk and canada) – internal;


suppliers – external.




 


working conditions


 




open plan office;


smart casual attire;


attention to detail.




 


education &/or experience


 


required




hr data management and reporting experience is essential


a high level of knowledge & experience in microsoft excel & other microsoft packages.


ability to manage a high volume workload


pc literate to a high standard;


previous experience of working in administration and a busy hr department


ability to relate to and interpret hr and business processes;


providing excellent customer service to employees of all levels.




 


preferred




cipd qualification – certificate in personnel practice (or equivalent).




 


 


competencies


 


required




ability to work on own initiative diligently and without constant supervision, analytical thinking / problem solving;


teamwork and co-operation: a flexible and team approach to work, working with others as partners, being part of a team, as opposed to working separately, competitively or adversely;


excellent communication skills to work effectively within the hr team and employees at every level of the business;


listening and understanding: ability to accurately listen and understand, and then respond appropriately when interacting with individuals and groups;


ability to work in detail while thinking about the bigger picture;


time management: ability to organize and prioritize work activities to efficiently accomplish tasks and meet objectives;


exhibit rbc’s core values.




 


preferred




treats “customer” issues with sensitivity and discretion at all times;


service provider mindset


maintains an awareness of diversity in different cultures, implementing suitable levels of respect and sensitivity.




           


time allocation


 


hr database maintenance – 20%


hr reporting – 80%


 


*li-mm2


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


rbc's partnership with the business disability forum highlights our commitment to being a disability-smart employer.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
london
 


address:
  
london
 


work hours/week:
  
25
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
09/17/2015
 


req id:
  
91909


posting notes:  
none


 


 


