Title:Senior Unix Systems Administrator
Location:London, LND, GB
Date Posted:2015-06-04
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/London-Senior-Unix-Systems-Administrator-LND/271578100/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


 


an enthusiastic, technically strong self-starter, working as a system administrator in the operations team to provide the highest level of support of linux and solaris technologies.  required to be dynamic, whilst exercising control and operational discipline, with a positive approach to learning and developing the technical environment, as well as themselves.


 


 


primary responsibilities


 




build, deploy, and maintain technology infrastructure, providing operational support & stability by following and using the tools, policies, processes and procedures where available. 


provide a secure environment, managing and mitigating risks:
	


audit controls & processes – implementing and enforcing process to meet audit controls such as access review.


regularly review and attest that controls are up to date and effective.


patch management & technical security compliance – establishing maintenance cycles and ensuring compliance to rbc requirements.


anticipate and quantify tactical, operational and strategic risks, applying risk-based approach to forecasting.






monitor& manage capacity, performance, health and availability of host machines and infrastructure services.


provide detailed reporting, kpis and metrics, analysing for trends, driving actions and enhancement/efficiency plans.


taking the lead & initiative in plant management and root cause analysis, directing team members as appropriate.


identify & manage risks & issues within unix and infrastructure services


exemplary and disciplined service management following agreed process & procedures, such as, but not limited to:
	


resolve incidents impacting hosts or environment, and following up on root cause via problem management, liaising with additional internal/external groups when required, resulting in satisfactory resolution.


create, review, maintain and update documentation.  document & publish fixes in central knowledge base, regularly re-evaluating processes and procedures.


responsibility for the planning and controlled execution of releases into the managed environment, following change control procedures.


ensuring customer satisfaction in service response and problem resolution.






proactive management and enhancement of infrastructure and infrastructure services, such as, but not limited to:
	


work with global colleagues to provide globally consistent processes and procedures.


integrate and interact with regional & global colleagues, providing innovative ideas.  evaluate, discuss, listen to and re-think ideas to move forwards in a productive manner.   active participation within and amongst teams and colleagues, providing constructive feedback when necessary.


identify areas for automation and scripting wherever possible.






help to identify opportunities for service/process improvement, synergies across the business and across infrastructure teams, and instigating & executing on initiatives.


attendance of vendor related events and workshops, with active participation, seeking out industry trends, feeding them back into the firm and division.


input, delivery and execution of project related work, taking ownership and providing technical expertise as appropriate.


input into business continuity planning & practices, improving year on year.


planning, presenting and executing on existing and future project plans for unix.


•     provide out-of-hours support escalation.  




 


authorities, impact, risk


 




the position supports other infrastructure and application support teams in providing them with services.




 


 


key relationships


 




this position will report into the global unix server manager, and keep them appraised of any faults\risks within the environment related to the supported platforms.


positive working relationships with application support teams and consumers of the platform we provide must also be maintained as part of the service we provide them


close interaction with local and global technical infrastructure teams


partnership with service management teams




 


           


working conditions


 




this position will include some physical requirements related to installations of servers.


other aspects of the role will primarily be desk based fault finding and reporting


dynamic environment.


can be stressful when dealing with outages.


attention to detail is critical.


shift & on-call rota




 


 


 


education &/or experience


 


required


 




automation techniques


knowledge of server hardware components and experience of troubleshooting hardware related issues.


advanced knowledge of server operating systems


good understanding of virtualisation environments


understanding of network infrastructure


vendor relationship building




 


 


           


competencies


 




procedure driven focus, attention to detail and diligent manner.






effective communication skills written and verbal, liaising with colleagues and management regularly


flexibility and team player


self driven and self-motivated


ability to learn quickly


ability to multi-task and manage workload with focus on effective and efficient delivery.


adaptable to an ever changing workload.


enthusiastic, dynamic, hungry to learn new things.


inquisitive




 


 


technical requirements




detailed knowledge and expertise of aix/linux and solaris infrastructure, load balancing, clustering, network & host security, and relevant protocols (smtp, http, ssl, dns, nfs)


expertise with volume management and file systems


detailed knowledge of storage connectivity platforms (for example, veritas)


understanding of virtualisation technologies, for example - esx, hyperv, vsphere


hardware configuration and modification (ibm)


multiple platform familiarity, e.g., grid, internet, client/server


exposure and support of storage environments (netapp/emc)


scripting knowledge ( perl)


reporting services




 


 


frameworks




understanding of itil and/or mof




 


 


skills desired (not essential)




project management


san knowledge




 


*li-mm2


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


rbc's partnership with the business disability forum highlights our commitment to being a disability-smart employer.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
london
 


address:
  
london
 


work hours/week:
  
35
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
09/02/2015
 


req id:
  
91080


posting notes:  
none


 


 


