Title:Front Office Application Developer - UI Developer
Location:London, LND, GB
Date Posted:2015-06-20
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/London-Front-Office-Application-Developer-LND/268922800/
purpose


 


the successful candidate will join the fic rates and crt front office applications team responsible for developing trading and risk management tools for the fic rates and counterparty risk (crt) businesses. they should expect exposure to various projects and initiatives including both greenfield development and maintaining and enhancing the existing codebase. partnering with the rest of the quant team and fic it teams, the developer will be part of an agile team responsible for the design, delivery and support of a full front to back trading and risk management application suite. specific deliverables for the team include the development of pricing, risk management, trade management, market data, model / valuation configuration and reference data management tooling to support the global fic rates and crt trading desks.


 


the candidate will develop scalable ui applications and visual components for the front office using wpf and .net 4.0/4.5. they will embrace the highly collaborative agile work environment requiring effective communication skills and work with rest of the team. they will deliver to aggressive schedules with high quality, well tested solutions on time. the candidate should ideally have experience working with analytics libraries and building front office pricing and risk applications.


 


primary responsibilities


 




develop ui’s for features and maintain existing and enhance existing ui’s


ensuring a high level of code quality validated through automated unit and integration tests


contribute to the overall design and development of a shared wpf application and it’s supporting infrastructure


work with other team members to ensure that tactical and strategic solutions dovetail.


work with business sponsors to understand their requirements and execute technical solutions where appropriate.


assist with 2nd line support as necessary, specifically around the trading apps and session manager    




 


 


authorities, impact, risk


 




the incumbent works under the guidance of the head of the front office applications team




 


 


key relationships


 




position reports to the head of the front office applications team


the quant and quant dev teams


fic technology teams


partner with appropriate leads from the front/middle office teams         




 


working conditions


 




located in central london, minimal travel required


high pressure, fast paced and demanding environment.


flexibility to quickly adjust to changes in a dynamic environment.




 


education &/or experience


 


technical experience (essential)




.net 4.0 / 4.5 (c#)


wpf (mvvm design patterns)


blend




 


technical experience (desirable)




front office experience and business knowledge (rates or cva preferred)


technologies: xml / infragistics /  wcf / zeroc ice


ioc technologies: unity


database systems (sql) and database design


ms build


middleware technologies (eg. solace)


distributed architectures


mocking tools




 


education/experience




candidate must be qualified to degree level


strong technical development skills are required


candidates should ideally have solid experience in investment banking, front office experience is preferred.




 


process knowledge




experience using continuous integration development approaches, and supporting technologies such as teamcity / jira / confluence


writing good unit tests and automated integration tests


understanding of different design techniques top-down, oo


understanding of business modeling methodologies such as uml


presentation skills


risk assessment & quantification


conflicts and issues resolution         




 


competencies


 


behavioural




ability to meet client needs without sacrificing deadlines and quality


ability to work effectively within global team


good written and communication skills


highly motivated and takes initiative


ability to liaise with traders, middle office, quants and it


ability to cope with changing priorities


takes accountability for own work


aligns immediate needs with long-term strategies


abides by the rbccm code of conduct




 


technical analysis, design & specification




using different techniques and tools (top-down, oo), designs technical solutions that meet business requirements and plc deliverables including component reusability, data sharing and security


participates in design phases, identifies and resolves technical issues


prepares and documents detailed technical specifications


participates in walkthrough of technical specifications, programs and unit test plans


coding, testing & documentation


develops in accordance with business requirements and rbc standards.


writes unit tests to ensure solid code coverage


provides technical, support and training documentation




 


planning, implementation & support




provides estimates on activities/tasks required to perform design, coding and unit testing, improving accuracy over time


coordinates implementation planning and execution.


performs disaster recovery for project deliverables


performs performance tuning to improve performance of single function


contributes to high level planning of project phases




 


*li-mm2


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


rbc's partnership with the business disability forum highlights our commitment to being a disability-smart employer.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
london
 


address:
  
london
 


work hours/week:
  
35
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
08/21/2015
 


req id:
  
90323


posting notes:  
none


 


 


