Title:Assistant Manager – Reporting & Data Management (12 Month Contract)
Location:London, LND, GB
Date Posted:2015-06-16
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/London-Assistant-Manager-Reporting-&-Data-Management-%2812-Month-Contract%29-LND/273907800/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


 




to support the senior manager hr services, hr group and the business through the management of hr information systems, data management, hr operational projects and initiatives to meet the business strategy.


contribute specialist skills to assist in the achievement of hr objectives and support the direction of rbc global technology strategy.


act as a client relationship manager representing hr with rbc it for hrws.


to carry out specialist management information and coe support in an accurate and timely manner.




 


primary responsibilities


 


 




play an active role in hr operations technology, related issues and projects impacting hr data as required.


prepare management information and statistical reports as required from the hris & other systems. 


to produce, analyse and interpret hr data reports with a high standard of presentation and confidentiality in an accurate and timely manner to support the needs of the hr department and the business.  


be responsible for integrity of data within the uk and/or ci hr services systems reporting where data discrepancies appear locally or globally


involvement in any future technology enhancements such as manager self serve functionality.


work with uk colleagues to create and provide wmi dashboards for hr/hrs


involvement in project teams as assigned by the senior manager hr services.


set high standards of accuracy, timeliness and professionalism, assisting in the evolving redesign of structure and hr department’s processes and procedures to adapt in line with business needs to ensure they are streamlined, efficient and mitigate risk to the company.


support the senior manager hr services ensuring the appropriate technical skills and expertise is developed, by training and mentoring colleagues and the business to perform new processes as and when required.


assist in the administration and communication of employee benefits renewals as and when required 


support maintenance of the hr pages on iwm net.


technology design & issue resolution -sap/ws/cidb


operational processes (hr ws/self service tools/ service now/thomsons,


support with bi reporting requests




 


hr reporting/database maintenance


 




lead and manage data management and reporting requirements for ci


accurate input and management of information on hr world service


provides assistance in data verification


provides assistance in the reporting of management information to the business. provide cover and support for uk reporting schedule as required


prepare diversity, metrics, scorecards reporting requirements for ci and uk where applicable


create hr services productivity metrics dashboards on a monthly basis


support bi reporting requests


support internal/external audit and regulatory requirements


support the year end absence management processes




ci lead for rbc connect usage & global group administration coe support


 




assist in the communication of hr policy in encouraging an atmosphere of good employee relations and open communication.


work with the senior manager hr services senior manager – employee relations to ensure the employee cd/iwm net intranet site is updated in line with new employment legislation and best practice.




 


  


           


authorities, impact, risk


 


the nature of hr activities places heavy demands on the incumbent in terms of confidentiality.


 


key relationships


 




hr operations colleagues,


hr units (bp’s & hra’s) and centres of expertise (learning, recruitment, hr systems, employee relations) locally and internationally,


hr data team in toronto,


marketing & communications, business managers and employees - internal,


agencies & suppliers – external,


hr services bi




 


working conditions


 




a degree of mental effort and related stress.


attention to detail.




 


education &/or experience


 




hr data management and reporting experience is essential;


a high level of knowledge & experience in microsoft excel & other microsoft packages.


an understanding of ci employment law and regulatory requirements pertaining to the financial services industry.


previous experience of working in administration and a busy hr department, providing excellent customer service to employees of all levels.


good knowledge of rbc’s business functions, policies and procedures.


good working knowledge of hr technology & mis systems


pc literate to a high standard




 


 


preferred


 




cipd qualification – certificate in personnel practice




 


 


 


competencies


 


behavioural


 




communication skills: ability to communicate effectively with employees at all levels, hr team (e.g. management team, coes, shared services), third party providers and external providers and authorities.


listening and understanding: ability to accurately listen and understand, and then respond appropriately when interacting with individuals and groups.


teamwork and co-operation: working with others as partners, being part of a team, and working together, as opposed to working separately, competitively or adversely.


leadership: sets a good example by modelling desired behaviour that is consistent with rbc values and business needs. follows through on own and team commitments. works to gain the commitment of others.


support in the development of others: demonstrates a genuine intent to enhance current and future performance and support an individual's personal and career growth. this includes an appropriate level of needs analysis, monitoring, feedback and future-oriented thinking. demonstrates commitment to sustained performance enhancement and the development of others by removing barriers, investing time and providing active support.


business sense: the ability to understand the business implications of decisions and the ability to strive to improve organizational performance. it requires an awareness of business issues, processes and outcomes as they impact the strategic direction of customers, service partners and the organization, and an understanding of the key business strategies, technologies, business and management processes and their impact on rbc’s strategic direction.


adaptability: ability and willingness to alter behaviour and opinions in light of new information, changing situations and/or different environments and cultures. the ability to adapt to and work effectively within a variety of situations, and with diverse individuals or groups.


initiative: continuously tries to overcome obstacles. perseveres when things do not go smoothly.


building partnerships with stakeholders: acting to build long-term or ongoing relationships with stakeholders/business partners.


impact and influence: intention to persuade, convince or influence in order to have a specific impact. the ability to anticipate and respond to the needs and concerns of others.




 


           


competencies


 


technical


 




project management: applies the appropriate leadership, negotiation, communication, motivation and team building skills to manage hr operational projects. use the appropriate methodology to breakdown the structure, cost, time, evaluation and review techniques to deliver projects successfully on time and budget. 


applies knowledge and expertise to diverse and complex business situations, sometimes where no previous precedent exists. develops new approaches where understanding of legal principles and concepts is very important. is recognized as a "subject matter expert" inside the organization.


business knowledge: knows the function of each department within a business unit and how the departments relate to each other. knows the key elements of the business unit's annual business plan including major initiatives, product launches, etc. knows the business strategy, critical success factors for the business unit and how these impact the balance of rbc.


hr management - develops new hr processes to enhance performance and support new or emerging business strategies.


time management: ability to organize and prioritize work activities to efficiently accomplish tasks and meet objectives.




 


 


other requirements


 




approachable & flexible,


treats “customer” issues with sensitivity and discretion at all times,


maintains an awareness of different cultures, implementing suitable levels of sensitivity.




 


*li-mm2


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


rbc's partnership with the business disability forum highlights our commitment to being a disability-smart employer.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
london
 


address:
  
london
 


work hours/week:
  
35
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
09/17/2015
 


req id:
  
91904


posting notes:  
none


 


 


