Title:Business Development Analyst (Los Angeles)
Location:Los Angeles, CA, US
Date Posted:2015-06-26
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Los-Angeles-Business-Development-Analyst-%28Los-Angeles%29-CA-90001/276239100/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


the analyst role serves to give analytical and operation support to the central funding sales and trading desks.  priorities include tracking projects, working with internal groups supporting the broader central funding group, and aiding the dissemination of information to relevant stakeholders.


 

primary responsibilities


 




supporting other team members through provision of information, where relevant, and back-up responsibilities


interface with clients and seek to create and develop new client relationships


confirming and assisting with project implementation and planning.


ensuring information integrity across multiple company database systems.


analyzing and organizing information in clear and intelligible manner for management to make quick and appropriate decisions.


escalate operational risk loss events, control deficiencies and risks that you identify to your line manager and the relevant risk and control functions on a timely basis




 


 


education &/or experience


 


required




undergraduate degree (ba/bs)


strong accounting and math skills


expected to successfully complete series 7, 63, and 55 registrations




 


*li-df2


 


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
los angeles
 


address:
  
777 south figueroa st
 


work hours/week:
  
40
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
exempt
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
11/24/2015
 


req id:
  
92607


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


 


 


