Title:Senior Manager - Deskside Support
Location:Minneapolis, MN, US
Date Posted:2015-06-26
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Minneapolis-Senior-Manager-Deskside-Support-MN-55401/276304100/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


sr. manager, deskside support services builds, leads and oversees the delivery of deskside support to uswm based users across all lines of business for incident management support and coordination of project activities including personnel relocation and technology moves, adds and changes. position provides advice and counsel to stakeholders concerning gti issues and industry trends and is a trusted partner of gti, t&o organization, and rbc uswm business/functional lines.


deskside support services acts as a support escalation point through communication with peer teams in other regions via regular bi-monthly conference calls and providing access to dss documentation repository.


 


responsibilities


 


leadership and strategic direction – 25%




partners with centre of excellence responsible for developing the framework, processes, tools and templates used by deskside support team. 


drives continuous improvement by leading a transformation team mandated to review support processes, methodologies and tooling.


responsible for collaborating with t&o  teams to gather business platform requirements and determine/recommend required changes to offered it services including  influencing  other gti teams to deliver on interrelated upgrades and solutions


responsible for developing new operating models for deskside support services for delivery to uswm


responsible for continuous improvement of end user services experience through participating in periodic technology platform reviews


leads the selection and implementation of suitable technologies to support business objectives.


participate in industry technical forums representing rbc uswm interests.


manage technology vendor relationships to ensure service quality is met or exceeded.


lead, manage and coach dss team to ensure a high degree of experience and ability to deliver a world class service.


lead integration activities related to corporate acquisitions into the rbc uswm end user infrastructure.




 


client focused solutions/relationship management – 25%




responsible for the overall customer experience of deskside support services and is the recognized contact for all operational concerns/issues of this platform.


establishes and maintains a service orientated, customer focused it function that supports ongoing operations that drive efficiency, quality, customer service and growth.


anticipates potential problems associated with desktop technologies and/or customer solutions and lead/agree on the risk management plan for implementation of solutions.


analyzes new and complex industry, technology, economic, and competitive situations taking into consideration real client needs and problems.


evaluates potential solutions and leads gti functions towards the adoption of optimal solutions – agrees on business assessment of solutions.


in collaboration with service management, oversees the negotiation and provision of high quality service levels for all rbc lines of business.


leads strategic and transformational proof of concept discussions, ensuring conflict is openly discussed and decisions made in the best interest of the organization.


participate in gti steering committees in selecting external vendors, third parties and manages the relationships as they relate to gti.


establishes strategic service provider partnerships.




 


people management – 20%




ensures that employees across all cultures and geographies understand the rbc, gti, and business/functional group visions, as well as deliver and reinforce targeted behaviours that contribute to overall rbc goals.


provide focus and clarity in establishing individual goals, driving performance management, supporting career development and rewarding strong performance.


drive the value in unit, department, and enterprise to develop better solutions, leverage best practices, and achieve a cross enterprise mindset while maintaining focus on business priorities.


identify and proactively retain critical talent through integrations and transition; manage employee performance.


escalates conflicts/issues on a timely basis to groups within gti and proactively works towards mitigation and resolutions of issues and risks.


leads by example in living rbc values (service, teamwork, responsibility, diversity, integrity) and ensures employees are motivated to make decisions in the best interests of clients.


role models rbc key behaviours (put clients first, collaborate as partners, develop people, act on our accountabilities make decisions faster, and prioritize for greatest impact).


develops the team by creating and leveraging opportunities and growth as well as learning for all employees.


demonstrates the rbc leadership capabilities (drives shareholder value, leads with integrity, works strategically and builds enterprise excellence).




 


operational efficiency and cost containment – 20%




manage an annual budget in excess of $1m and continuously strives to decrease departmental costs including rightsizing organization based on workload with a goal of declining service rates.


collaborates with gti partners to ensure continued business responsiveness, risk mitigation, and operational stability of technologies and services supporting all rbc uswm.


identifies opportunities to leverage core infrastructure services and leads initiatives to integrate services, driving cost reduction with adherence to it infrastructure common practices, governance and architecture standards.


applies creativity to reduce department/team costs and expenses impacting functional and business achievements. 


reduces costs and improves efficiency through integration and outsourcing.


governance & oversight of all deskside support activities within rbc uswm.


accountable for uswm deskside support operating plan.


collaborates with global infrastructure teams on regional deskside support operating plans.




 


regulatory responsibilities – 10%




runs the business with the applicable regulatory requirements, expectations and delegated authorities.


manages and reacts to rbc, sox or similar internal and external audits.


maintains systems within compliancy requirements.




 


qualifications


 


basic qualifications:




undergraduate degree or equivalent experience


10+ years experience in information technology


5+ years of management experience




 


other required qualifications:




requires cross functional negotiation and influencing skills to resolve problems and issues.


ability to inspire, influence and guide individuals or teams towards a common direction and objective.


ability to interact collaboratively with multiple groups and disciplines to develop and refine ideas.


demonstrate ability to drive deliverables to completion.


strong customer service and consulting skills.


collaborative skills and ability to handle complex issues, balancing strategic thinking and tactical skills.


maturity level and skill/judgement to be able to deal effectively with senior managers/executives.


effective collaborator – active listener, respectfully challenges, strong influencer and negotiator.


strong facilitation and presentation skills as well as excellent written skills.


ability to translate business “asks” into new or modified service requirements.


strong at building relationships and influencing without authority.


attention to detail and quality is crucial.


success will depend on influence in addition to direct authority.


ability to engage partners with a service provider mindset and act in accordance with rbc values and key behaviours.




 


preferred qualifications:




understanding of all rbc lines of business and that translates to their infrastructure needs.


understanding of all rbc infrastructure services and organization.






experience leading large complex enterprise-wide infrastructure projects/programs with multiple interfaces and/or 3rd parties.


in depth knowledge of related infrastructure technologies and proven experience and success in managing large, distributed teams supporting business users.


experience in working in a matrix environment.




 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


about rbc wealth management


through our association with royal bank of canada (rbc) — one of north america’s largest and healthiest financial institutions — rbc wealth management offers the strength and stability you require in a financial partner.


 




rbc maintains consistently high credit ratings: s&p: aa-; moody’s: aa3; fitch: aa; dbrs: aa (as of july 2014)


based on market capitalization, rbc is the 12th largest bank in the world and the sixth largest in north america. (bloomberg as of august 2014)


rbc employs more than 79,000 employees who serve more than 16 million personal, business, public sector and institutional clients through offices in canada, the u.s. and 44 other countries.




 


rbc’s financial strength, sound risk management policies, strong balance sheet and diversified business mix have enabled it to withstand many of the market shocks and pressures. rbc’s performance relative to global competitors has been and should remain a source of confidence for shareholders and clients —and a source of pride for employees.


 


job summary


city:
  
minneapolis
 


address:
  
60 south 6th street
 


work hours/week:
  
40
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
regular - u.s.
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
exempt
 


people manager:
  
yes
 


job posting end date:
  
07/17/2015
 


req id:
  
92627


posting notes:  
none


