Title:Systems Administrator / Technical Service Analyst
Location:Minneapolis, MN, US
Date Posted:2015-06-18
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Minneapolis-Systems-Administrator-Technical-Service-Analyst-MN-55401/274545900/
purpose 

the infrastructure technical service analyst is responsible for performing analytical, design, implementation, and tier 3-4 support for infrastructure.  work is focused primarily on proprietary products that are designed specifically for designated business lines, however can be expanded to include enterprise wide projects, researching new technologies as well as support of legacy infrastructure as needed.   the candidates considered for this most level analyst have significant experience with successful implementations in their career. they are expected to provide mentoring to tier 1 and tier 2 analysts often serving as an informal work lead in helping to resolve more complex problems or questions.


 


responsibilities 


technical analysis, design and consulting




provides technical direction for infrastructure and business line projects by actively engaging in the decision making process with application development


evaluates and recommend creative solutions for new technologies to improve upon or enhance existing technologies deployed


implement as-is & to-be technical business and system designs in order to lead application teams from business silos to business modularity


makes proactive recommendations for appropriate technologies supporting the users' long term needs


collaborate with business representatives to understand it requirements generated by business strategies and operations


develop and implement the technology required to support general infrastructure requirements


assists in the detailed design phases for small to medium projects/ programs identifying, tracking and resolving technical issues


researches requirements regarding multiple technical platforms




    


planning, implementation & support




troubleshoots\resolves microsoft windows server application integration and hardware issues.


acts as an escalated resource for issues impacting the us business.


generate and maintain cross functional roadmaps to eliminate surprises for development teams.


provides consultation on the development, maintenance of system documentation protocols to ensure that additions and modifications are thoroughly documented upon implementation.


coordinates off site installations and resolution of service problems with third party vendors (off hours as necessary).


provide off hours on call support as business lines needs and technologies dictate




 


 
relationships & communication




effectively communicates and builds rapport with team members, stakeholders and interface groups using a variety of techniques and collaboration from initiation to close


resolves minor conflicts/issues and escalates others as appropriate


communicates with external vendors on the license and support matters.


identifies technical and business opportunities to take advantage of cross project knowledge, best practices and reusability to expedite projects




 


development & coaching




serves as mentor to tier 1 and tier 2 analysts – advising and counseling them on more complex situations/problems.  shares their broad knowledge base to fellow employees


acts as project leader on small to medium projects


acts as liaison with specified areas and confers to define problems; trains users on capabilities of systems.


continually enhances skills and builds knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business and information systems


performs other job related duties as assigned




 


major challenges




meeting the high level of responsiveness required for demanding customer service levels.


communicating the appropriate level of technical details of issues/status to a wide variety of technical levels in the same audience.


appropriately communicating open issue status to peers and clients.  being aware of issues of over and\or under communicating.




 


qualifications


basic qualifications:




4-7 years of information systems experience with focus on infrastructure engineering and operations


technical experience with virtualization solutions (vmware and citrix)


technical experience with windows 2003 and windows 2008 os




additional qualifications:




solid experience with all microsoft back office products in a large enterprise environment (such as sql, iis, sms/sccm, exchange).


technical experience with microsoft networking environment – tcp/ip based multiple domain models, wins, dns, dhcp, and active directory services.


technical experience with non-windows based operating systems (unix, linux, etc).


strong customer service skills.


strong written and verbal communication skills with strong ability to influence


good analytical skills


effective problem identification and resolution skills.


excellent organizational skills with the ability to put ideas into tangible form.


proven project coordination skills.


demonstrated advanced troubleshooting skills.


able to engage at multiple levels: developer to c level leaders






preferred experience




2 years post-secondary education, certification, or equivalent experience


trading and financial system support experience




 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
minneapolis
 


address:
  
60 s 6th st
 


work hours/week:
  
40
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
regular - u.s.
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
exempt
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
06/30/2015
 


req id:
  
91967


posting notes:  
n/a


