Title:Applications Project Coordinator
Location:Minneapolis, MN, US
Date Posted:2015-06-15
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Minneapolis-Applications-Project-Coordinator-MN-55401/273731700/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


to provide support to managers, project managers and other applications functions in building and maintaining project plans; tracking and reporting of financials; working with the finance team to align financial reporting; and assisting in preparing documentation. 
provide project coordination support on small to complex projects.


 


responsibilities


project coordination




work with project teams to build and maintain project plans.


develop and update dashboards for project governance meetings.


develop and update monthly project dashboards.


obtain monthly updates from project stakeholders on project development spend to date.


track, maintain and report on project financials.


work with the finance group on tracking and aligning project financial reporting.


track and update project roadmaps.


create and maintain project artifact library and other relevant project documentation.


provide support for the project team with meeting preparation and follow up.


other duties and responsibilities as assigned.




 


relationships & communication  




collaborates with colleagues to get things done.


develops project coordination communications such as status report updates.


provides management with timely updates on project issues.




 


qualifications


basic qualifications:




bachelor's degree or 2+ years of directly applicable work experience.


working knowledge of ms word, excel, powerpoint.




 


other required qualifications:




ability to communicate effectively both verbally and in writing.


ability to take initiative and handle multiple priorities in a fast-paced, deadline-driven environment.


ability to work independently and within a team environment.


strong attention to detail.


tracking and reporting project management and/or business data experience.


demonstrated organizational and follow-up skills.


demonstrated problem identification, analytical and resolution skills.




 


preferred project management knowledge:




project management processes.


project metrics gathering.


project metrics reporting.


project metrics analysis.


project metrics creation.


issues escalation and resolution.




 


preferred systems knowledge:




microsoft project proficiency preferred.


knowledge of relevant technology preferred.




 


preferred business knowledge:




general knowledge of factors affecting business.


business unit-specific strategies and critical success factors.


trends in the marketplace/ technology.




 


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


about rbc wealth management


through our association with royal bank of canada (rbc) — one of north america’s largest and healthiest financial institutions — rbc wealth management offers the strength and stability you require in a financial partner.


 




rbc maintains consistently high credit ratings: s&p: aa-; moody’s: aa3; fitch: aa; dbrs: aa (as of july 2014)


based on market capitalization, rbc is the 12th largest bank in the world and the sixth largest in north america. (bloomberg as of august 2014)


rbc employs more than 79,000 employees who serve more than 16 million personal, business, public sector and institutional clients through offices in canada, the u.s. and 44 other countries.




 


rbc’s financial strength, sound risk management policies, strong balance sheet and diversified business mix have enabled it to withstand many of the market shocks and pressures. rbc’s performance relative to global competitors has been and should remain a source of confidence for shareholders and clients —and a source of pride for employees.


 


job summary


city:
  
minneapolis
 


address:
  
60 south 6th street
 


work hours/week:
  
40
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
regular - u.s.
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
non-exempt
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
06/30/2015
 


req id:
  
91875


posting notes:  
n/a


