Title:Senior Manager - IT Operations
Location:Minneapolis, MN, US
Date Posted:2015-06-26
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Minneapolis-Senior-Manager-IT-Operations-MN-55401/276303400/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


 


provide strategic and operational leadership to a technology operations function (employees, contract personnel and/or vendor partners) dedicated to a portfolio of technical business applications and/or services, including: operational maintenance, production support, helpdesk, data center oversight of incidents and remediation planning, development support, and proactive analysis (to include solution/service innovation and change management). work closely with the business and leadership to understand business needs and develop and drive an operating plan and strategy to meet those needs.


 


responsibilities


 


strategy & leadership – 30%




collaborate with the business to understand strategy, needs, and end-user needs, then develop and drive a services/support strategy to meet those needs. review and compare offering with current and future needs, identify gaps and ensure strategy addresses gaps.


partner and collaborate with rbc’s global technology group (gti) and the business to define the strategy to evolve the help desk to a best in class service desk.


plan and implement a resource strategy (internal vs. vendor) based on business need, scope of work, cost and skill requirements


prioritize initiatives based on business need, cost and impact. determine and/or recommend approach to provide services (internally or outsourced). provide cost, feasibility and impact/benefit analysis to support and gain strategy approval.


develop and maintain an organization of high performing people through effective hiring, coaching and rigorous performance/talent management.


drive it operational best practices in the rbc uswm t&o organization. 


foster a collaborative, success-oriented team environment where resources are empowered and accountable.


provide innovation and leadership in the selection, implementation and use of tools and best practices.


must oversee production support activities of multiple; advisor, client, and corporate office applications. applications will be on both distributive and mainframe platforms.




 


continuous
 
improvement
 & change management– 20%




regularly review offering for potential areas of improvement in processes, support and/or service offering.


collaborate with the it service management organization to help lead effective change management processes to ensure effective adoption and desired utilization rates of services, products and/or initiatives. 


collaborate with it service management organization to review service level agreements/objectives (sla/os) and performance against them. establish and maintain a communication process that drives effective two-way communication with end-users/customers.


maintain up-to-date skills in relevant technologies.


establish and maintain effective and productive working relationships with business partners, vendor partners and their resources, as well as other teams across technology.


maintain a broad understanding of business, business needs, and how technology drives and supports the business.




 


incident management– 20%




oversee critical and escalated incidents to ensure service restoration targets are met. track and communicate status to senior leadership as appropriate.


ensure incident management and resolution processes are followed.


ensure action plans are in place to address recurring availability/performance impacts on technical assets, systems and infrastructure.


ensure escalation and effective hand-off of support issues to other technology groups as required.


drive service level reporting to ensure alignment




 


budget/financial management– 20%




manage the annual budget and financial planning process for assigned organization.


prioritize and plan technology service/support solutions within the annual business-as-usual and investment budgets.


collaborate with involved teams across the business and with vendor partners to effectively and accurately estimate work and cost associated with services/deliverables as it relates to area of responsibility.




 


vendor management– 10%




provide strategic direction for help desk and data center employees, contractors and/or vendor partners.


monitor vendor performance to ensure obligations are being met and identify issues and service gaps to identify process improvements and implement accordingly. ensure resources (on and off-shore) of appropriate skill set and adoption of preferred methodologies.




 


qualifications


 


basic qualifications:




undergraduate degree or equivalent experience


10+ years experience in information technology


5+ years of management experience




 


other required qualifications:




requires cross functional negotiation and influencing skills to resolve problems and issues.


ability to inspire, influence and guide individuals or teams towards a common direction and objective.


ability to interact collaboratively with multiple groups and disciplines to develop and refine ideas.


excellent understanding of all rbc lines of business and that translates to their infrastructure needs.


deep understanding of all rbc infrastructure services and organization.


demonstrate ability to drive deliverables to completion.


strong customer service and consulting skills.


collaborative skills and ability to handle complex issues, balancing strategic thinking and tactical skills.


maturity level and skill/judgement to be able to deal effectively with senior managers/executives.


effective collaborator – active listener, respectfully challenges, strong influencer and negotiator.


strong facilitation and presentation skills as well as excellent written skills.


ability to translate business “asks” into new or modified service requirements.


strong at building relationships and influencing without authority.


attention to detail and quality is crucial.


success will depend on influence in addition to direct authority.


ability to engage partners with a service provider mindset and act in accordance with rbc values and key behaviours.




 


preferred qualifications:




experience leading large complex enterprise-wide infrastructure projects/programs with multiple interfaces and/or 3
rd
 parties. 


in depth knowledge of related infrastructure technologies and proven experience and success in managing large, distributed teams supporting business users.


good understanding of core business processes across the following business functions; new business, money movement, correspondence, client maintenance, reporting, workflow, and document management.




 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
minneapolis
 


address:
  
60 south 6th street
 


work hours/week:
  
40
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
regular - u.s.
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
exempt
 


people manager:
  
yes
 


job posting end date:
  
07/17/2015
 


req id:
  
92623


posting notes:  
none


