Title:Voice Network Analyst
Location:Minneapolis, MN, US
Date Posted:2015-06-16
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Minneapolis-Voice-Network-Analyst-MN-55401/273922700/
-------------------------------------------
purpose
: 


this position would be responsible for managing various ipt and media technology implementations relating to rbc’s global voice services.


this position would provide an escalated point of contact for technical networking support, primarily for the gins network operations staff. 


all responsibilities are carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles.


 


primary responsibilities


 


primary responsibilities


 


change management




prime interface between voice engineering teams and gins/gocc for change management.


contribute to, and vet method of procedure documents for change projects.


initiate change control tickets.


follow-up on success of change activities.


work to 100% change success with 0 unplanned downtime resulting from planned changes.


ensure documentation is current as it relates to changes made, ie. prp docs, diagrams etc…




 


troubleshooting & support




provide support in resolving various voice infrastructure related issues.






utilizes all available resources to perform trouble shooting e.g. documentation, contacts, etc.


manage incidents/problems according to incident/problem management process


identify any major operational/networking problems to the voice engineering team with possible recommendations for solution.


coordinate incident resolution with various it support teams and external service providers, identifying, tracking and resolving issues.




relationships, communication & customer service




promote and foster a team environment within the department and service partners to achieve superior customer focused service delivery, realized through high client satisfaction, as demonstrated by client surveys and fewer escalations


effectively communicate and build rapport with team members, stakeholders and interface groups using a variety of techniques and collaboration from initiation to close.


use different tactics for resolving conflicts/issues prior to escalation.


effectively liaise with internal and external service partners as required


work with peer groups within t & o to bring complex issues to resolution, escalating to management when required


establish and maintain effective relationships with clients and gain their trust and respect


provide input into level of service provided by it support teams


responsible for ensuring clients’ queries and concerns are responded to in a prompt, helpful and professional manner while promoting user self-sufficiency.




 


 


incident ownership




set follow up times for all incidents, so that recovery can be achieved within severity guidelines


follow up with service partners when status not provided within guidelines and escalate when necessary


provide diagnosis and problem recovery for incidents




development




continually enhance skills and build knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business and information systems


obtain any other certifications as required to meet changing business needs.






 




job specifications


 


required:




ba/bs is required.


5+ years experience in 
ccie collaboration, 
ccvp, 
cisco unity connection, 
cucm 9.1 (and above), 
sip trunking, 
ospf, 
eigrp, and 
vlans


hands on voice infrastructure knowledge essential


voice infrastructure and/or sip certifications an asset


lan/wan certification an asset




 


preferred:




demonstrated knowledge of standard financial industry business best practices.


project management skills


itil v3 training 




*li-ac


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
minneapolis
 


address:
  
60 s 6th street
 


work hours/week:
  
40+
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
regular - u.s.
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
exempt
 


people manager:
  
yes
 


job posting end date:
  
06/15/2015
 


req id:
  
91854


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


