Title:Group Home & Auto Business Development Manager, QC (92417)
Location:Montreal, QC, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-26
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Montreal-Group-Home-&-Auto-Business-Development-Manager%2C-QC-%2892417%29-QC/276326800/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


• this position is responsible for proactive lead generation and the acquisition of new group home and auto accounts, in addition to managing the relationship and deepening the penetration within a portfolio of high profile corporations and organizations.


• the position is responsible for meeting annual group home & auto (gha) sales and revenue targets as well as supporting revenue generation via related channels and products.


 


primary responsibilities


strategic direction:


• contribute proactively and effectively in developing a territorial business plan and execution of tactics with objectives to meet established sales premium, new group acquisition, account retention and account penetration targets


 


operations:


• deliver on gha sales & revenue goals and net income after tax(niat) by identifying sales opportunities, new lead generation, new group acquisition, retention activities, increasing penetration and delivering gha services to in-force group accounts


• develop penetration and cross sell opportunities by building strong internal & external networks and implementing marketing and campaign/promotional activities.


• proactively identify other opportunities to fully meet the client’s needs and deepen client relationships by leveraging rbc capabilities and partners


• manage relationships with key external stakeholders to ensure quality customer service as well as key internal stakeholders for product, process, underwriting, marketing or industry info for you and/or your client


 


personal excellence


• understand and support rbc vision, as well as support and reinforce targeted behaviors
 that contribute to rbc goals.


• achieve individual goals, by actively participating in performance management strategizing, identifying career development opportunities and recognizing strong performance.


• realize the value in unit, department, and enterprise wide teams to develop better solutions and achieve a cross enterprise mindset.


• accept and successfully execute change while supporting peers through the process, and keeping them focused on business priorities.


 


knowledge/experience


• proven ability to meet and exceed sales objectives in a commercial market environment.


• a property & casualty license is preferred but not necessary.


• established network to grow business through referrals.


• self-motivated individual and strong team player


• strong presentation, negotiation, interpersonal and communication skills


 


preferred


a minimum of 3 years of experience in sales roles and roles requiring strong listening, understanding, responding, impact and influence competencies.


 


 


li-vc1


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
montreal
 


address:
  
1 place ville marie
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
your home office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
51-75
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
07/10/2015
 


req id:
  
92417


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


 


 


