Title:Senior Manager - IT Risk Infrastructure
Location:New York, NY, US
Date Posted:2015-06-16
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/New-York-Senior-Manager-IT-Risk-Infrastructure-NY/243526000/
-------------------------------------------
purpose:
  the senior manager, it risk domain (infrastructure) is responsible for developing and ensuring the ongoing maintenance of the second line of defense for the infrastructure domain.  responsible for ensuring enterprise governance within the infrastructure domain including providing it risk management subject matter expertise to challenge and support the first line of defense execution groups within the business, providing advice on the development and implementation of policies and related guidance in alignment with the it risk framework, participating in setting risk appetite, and to acting as the center of expertise for it risk best practices.


 


primary responsibilities




strategic oversight and challenge:


act as a resource to the regional and platform specific directors, it risk, and it management, utilizing deep specialized expertise for the infrastructure domain to assist in the development of risk mitigation solutions.


provide support to the first line of defense operating teams through the it risk platform and regional directors in providing independent oversight and challenge for the infrastructure domain.


ensure that the risk profile is fairly presented in ongoing reporting and escalate to the director, it risk domains when the risk profile is at or near risk appetite.


provide advice and counsel to executives and senior management, as requested by directors, it risk, enhancing their ability to anticipate and manage domain risks effectively.


sustain a comprehensive domain risk appetite framework, policy, and control standards that align to industry practices and current and emerging regulatory requirements.


conduct effectiveness assessments and analyze results of third party audit reviews, tracking remediation of identified it risk related issues.


contribute to scenario analysis within the infrastructure domain.




 


job specifications


required:




undergraduate degree in information technology


a minimum of 8 years of experience in a progressively responsible role in the it risk domain of infrastructure, within a global financial services organization


thorough understanding of the industry control environment within the it risk domain of infrastructure


strategic mindset, with excellent knowledge and understanding of the financial industry


well-developed ability for conceptual thinking


strong communication and presentation skills


well-developed impact and influence skills


strong relationship building skills




 


 


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
new york
 


address:
  
3wfc
 


work hours/week:
  
40+
 


work environment:
  
regional office
 


employment type:
  
regular - u.s.
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
exempt
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
12/31/2015
 


req id:
  
79023


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


