Title:Project Manager (Risk IT)
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-05-30
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Project-Manager-%28Risk-IT%29-ON/264600100/
-------------------------------------------
purpose:


plans, directs and coordinates activities of assigned projects to ensure project goals or objectives are accomplished within approved time frame, scope and budget.  independently and effectively manages assigned projects. refer to authorities for project criteria


 


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles.


 


primary responsibilities:


project planning & execution




initiates projects and manages the definition of high level scope.


seeks out industry trends and organization knowledge to understand alternative approaches / solutions.


recommends best solutions incorporating build, buy or wait based on understanding of business issues.


develops integrated baseline project plans adapting estimating models as required, documents estimating assumptions, refines plans and manages performance against them.


provides schedule and costs forecasts including risk based provisions.


identifies resources and skills required.


captures and tracks metrics and performs trend analysis.


applies program decision framework (who does what; how to communicate) and contributes to its ongoing improvement.


manages project scope/requirements changes, multiple and competing demands and priorities determining and conveying impact on budget, time and risk using appropriate fact-based metrics/assumptions.


determines quality standards and oversees the execution/production of project deliverables and management documents.


identifies and manages project costs and budgets.


anticipates operational and tactical risks and tracks them using the appropriate methodology.


raises and tracks issues and conflicts, removes barriers, proactively resolves issues engaging with stakeholders and escalates to appropriate level where required.


identifies and resolves/escalates potential conflicts between long-term architecture direction and project constraints.


assesses ambiguous situations and provides clarity to team and stakeholders as required.




 




promotes innovative or improved methods to get the work done and implements best practices.


manages project closure initiatives.




 


relationships & communication 




provides superior client experience and strengthens relationship with business partner.


collaborates with colleagues across the organization to get things done.


manages project communications including status reports to all stakeholders.


provides senior management with timely updates on project issues.


recommends external vendors and third parties and manages the relationships at the project level.




 


managerial excellence




sets direction and vision for the team.


builds project management capability on the team.


coaches and mentors project managers/team leaders.


establishes succession plan for key positions, including own.


selects & builds a high performing diverse team that leverages individual capabilities & strengths.


promotes a mindset for sustained success, growth and diversity.


spearheads and guides people through changes.


develops self.




 


 


position requirements specifications:


 
behavioural competencies (for superior performance)




breakthrough thinking


business acumen


customer insight


dealing with ambiguity


strategic influencing


teamwork and cooperation 


change leadership


developing others




 


experience (to enter position)




demonstrated leadership ability


5+ years of project management experience successfully and simultaneously managing a minimum of 3  mid-size projects (budget range 2-5 mm cad) or one large project (5-10m) with emphasis on some of the following:
	


high impact or business risk


uncertain business requirements


new technology






experience in financial services/regulatory projects


experience managing projects for trading credit risk (asset)




education




bachelor or master’s degree


pmp designation (asset)




 


 


 


pm knowledge




project plan development & management


work breakdown structure


task based plans


assumption & risk based plans


base-lining & scheduling 


scheduling methodology (cpm, gert, pert)


waterfall and iterative methodologies


project metrics gathering


project metrics reporting


project metrics analysis


project metrics trend analysis & education


project metrics creation


program plan and metrics


program governance


meta model creation


risk assessment & quantification methodologies


issues escalation and resolution


facilitation skills


scope change management


cost/benefit analysis & alternatives identification


budgeting, project costs management


quality controls


procurement


communication management & plans




 


systems knowledge




knowledge of relevant technology


knowledge of it standards, methodologies, cmm and audit requirements




 


business knowledge




general knowledge of factors affecting business


bu specific strategies & critical success factors


trends in the marketplace/ technology




 


people management knowledge




workforce planning


job design


organization design




 


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
155 wellington st w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
05/12/2015
 


req id:
  
88927


posting notes:  
none


 


 


