Title:Technical Systems Analyst – Compliance Technology
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-27
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Technical-Systems-Analyst-Compliance-Technology-ON/245418700/
-------------------------------------------
key accountabilities


technical analysis, design & planning




works with business analysts to devise optimal it solutions.


assesses, researches, and analyzes business and system needs, exploring alternative options to recommend technology solutions and designs that meet sponsor needs


produces detailed designs for systems and components, identifying, tracking and resolving technical issues while accounting for component reusability, data sharing and security.


works with development lead to provide detailed breakdowns and effort estimates of analysis, development and deployment work required to meet project requirements and timelines.


contributes to successful project completion by identifying risks and developing/recommending mitigating strategies.


understands and adheres to security and process controls to ensure secure handling of confidential data.  quickly escalates risks or gaps detected in controls to manager


works with infrastructure groups facilitate the configuration and implementation of required hardware, software and network resources.


investigates causes of production incidents with appropriate urgency. collaborates with production support groups to identify the relevant aspects of the incident context.  works to reproduce the issues, and validate solutions, in test environments. provides regular updates on investigation/resolution status.




coding, testing & documentation




implements and maintains automated unit and integration tests as an integral part of development work.


works closely with qa team to ensure high quality of the product


ensures adequate technical documentation and follows ‘best practices’ within the it teams


performs design and code reviews and prepares technical documentation


designs and executes and documents performance/load tests implemented components as needed


designs and implements complex job scheduling for multi-region etl processing. 


implements etl and data analysis models using c#, stored procedures, microsoft ssis and vendor frameworks as appropriate.


designs reports and solutions of a medium complexity.


implements unix scripts using standard shell utilities that reliable and easy to support and maintain


develops and supports dynamic, data driven, web-based applications with the microsoft .net 4  framework


correctly leverages distributed authentication technologies and role based authorization models




 


core competencies / skills:


technical




expertise in database design and tuning


database programming skills with experience r microsoft sql server 2008-2012 or sybase 15.x platforms


solid understanding of the sdlc process / methodologies, relational database concepts, object-oriented techniques, user interface principles


experience developing, maintaining, and deploying enterprise scale applications


experience using business requirements  to produce designs both logical and physical


able to implement software engineering best practices for version control, release management, unit and integration and planning


able to quickly contribute quality designs and code on multiple aspects of the platform.


programming experience with c#, java, unix shell scripting and perl


experience with subversion, git or equivalent version control tools.


experience with asp.net 2.0, asp.net mvc, webapi, ado.net, javascript, html, xml, ajax, iis server


experience integrating with soap and rest web services


familiarity with windows installer


experience creating complex reports with ssrs




business, relationships & communication




good communication skills both verbal and written


works collaboratively to resolve conflicts/issues but escalates as necessary.


quick learner and someone who understands the ‘big picture’


knowledge of capital markets products and data is an asset


knowledge of financial industry




core behaviors




maintains client expectation without sacrificing deadlines and quality


coordinates and manages multiple tasks and priorities (sometimes competing), while still producing high quality results.


copes with change and ambiguity while ensuring all effort to make sure that there is cooperation and teamwork.


consistently maintains a positive ‘can-do’ attitude and inspires others to excel.


able to work after hours, or on weekends, as needed, to support production implementations and assist as an escalation contact for production incidents


abides by the rbc code of conduct.




 


education:   
 undergraduate degree.  concentrations in computing science, applied mathematics or electrical engineering preferred.


 


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
155 wellington st w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
02/24/2015
 


req id:
  
82999


posting notes:  
none


