Title:Sr. Technical Systems Analyst (Java Developer/Market Risk IT)
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-24
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Sr_-Technical-Systems-Analyst-%28Java-DeveloperMarket-Risk-IT%29-ON/275669000/
purpose:


the primary   of this role is to provide java technology expertise that will expand the capacity of the global market risk technology team in the area of limit monitoring and reporting.


 


 


primary responsibilities




contribute to the overall design and development of limit administration and monitoring platform


work with other team members to ensure high quality software development in line with the agreed strategic approach


perform initial integration testing of own work to ensure a complete and correct solution in addition to assisting official support and test teams in performing their functions


identify business, technology and people risks associated with a solution


assist with 2nd line support as necessary. 




 


authorities, impact, risk




works under the guidance of the market risk it management


works closely with other team members to ensure joint ownership of a quality solution




 


key relationships




position reports to market risk it management


partner with peers from the middle office, other technology teams, and support and test personnel




 


working conditions




located in downtown toronto, minimal travel required


high pressure, fast paced and demanding environment.


ability to prioritize multiple priorities effectively


flexibility to quickly adjust to changes in a dynamic environment. 




 


education &/or experience


required




excellent core java, spring & other current open-source libraries and frameworks


hands on experience with data modeling and data management tools (sql server)


significant experience designing, implementing and delivering high-availability real-time software.


experience working closely with other developers using an agile software development approach


experience effectively applying technology best practices and processes to a high-paced organization




preferred




knowledge of the risk management


shell scripting 


knowledge of messaging middleware systems




 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
155 wellington st w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
07/06/2015
 


req id:
  
92277


posting notes:  
none


 


 


