Title:SCCM Senior Specialist
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-24
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-SCCM-Senior-Specialist-ON/275704600/
purpose:


this position reports to the head of global release management services and is responsible to help drive overall day to day process strategy/efficiency and microsoft sccm (system center configuration manager) infrastructure engineering. rbc's global sccm infrastructure is made up of 160,000 clients with over 2000 distribution points. this group has global responsibility of the end to end software distribution process (operations/development/infrastructure). as a senior post a high level of professionalism, industry knowledge and drive is required to ensure the service provided matches the business’s needs.


 


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles.


 


primary responsibilities:


maintenance - support - development




strong understanding of software deployment as a service


experience optimizing an automating software deployment processes


expert knowledge with sccm including operating system deployment.


experience with the full suite of microsoft operating systems and management tools.


strong powershell scripting, experience integrating with system center.


experience with other scripting including vbscript.


knowledge of microsoft sql.


strong sccm application/package deployment experience.


strong sccm compliance management experience.


build application deployment methodology.


provide technical guidance to the lines of business for development activities.


assist with the design and implementation of the software library.


work thought service partners to resolve all issues impacting software distribution.


resolve assigned incidents within establishes slas.


identify chronic problems, design and implement a remediation plans.


identify opportunities for automation and improving software distribution.


stay current on new technologies and industry trends.


assist business units and functional units with their specific software distribution and inventorying needs.


develop proposals for senior management.


contribute to successful project completion by identifying risks and developing/recommending mitigation strategies.


ensure operational procedures are documented.


equal participation in 7x24 pager support.


analyze reporting results and identify issues, trends and communicate to management.




 


relationships & communication




act as a visible point of contact for the global release management services group


effectively communicates and builds rapport with team members, stakeholders and interface with groups using a variety of techniques and collaboration from initiation to close.


facilitates small to large group meetings to resolve issues.


respond and provide information as required by business partners.


prepares and delivers presentations to business, technology partners and senior management, selecting the appropriate approach based on the audience.


resolves conflicts/issues and escalates others as appropriate.




 


development & coaching




may act as project leader/back up manager


continually enhances skills and builds knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business and information systems. ongoing sharing of expertise, tips and tricks, knowledge and experience gained through complex packaging activities, software deployments, enterprise support and all other troubleshooting activities.


an active resource to assist junior team members with distribution questions and concerns.




 


position requirements/specifications:


education/experience




technical undergraduate degree or equivalent experience


ms certified (current). if not certified it will be required within first 12 months


sccm2012 development experience


scorch2012 development experience


scripting (powershell, vbscript)


knowledge of ms sql, hp sm9 service manager


itil fundamentals




 


process knowledge




sound knowledge of rbc it processes and procedures


communication skills


facilitation skills


presentation skills


risk assessment & quantification methodologies


conflicts and issues resolution and escalation




 


behavioural competencies




achievement motivation


breakthrough thinking


business acumen


customer insight


dealing with ambiguity


strategic influencing


teamwork & cooperation


analytical thinking




 


*li-ts2


 


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
315 front st w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
07/12/2015
 


req id:
  
92350


posting notes:  
none


