Title:Configuration Management Analyst Fall Co-op
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-23
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Configuration-Management-Analyst-Co-op-ON/264837200/
-------------------------------------------
purpose:


partners across it and with assigned business line(s) to assess, research, and analyze business, technical and systems needs in order to resolve business systems issues by implementing technology.


 


context: small development or maintenance projects (multiple functions, single application at one time). emphasis is split between code building and implementation.


 


 


what you will be doing:


 


technical analysis, design & consulting 




consults on physical and deployment design artefacts for small projects/ programs identifying issues to the appropriate manager.


documents and refines common cm practices (check-in/check-out, merge, branch, etc)  for development team


contributes to successful project completion by identifying risks and developing/recommending mitigation strategies.




 


coding, testing & documentation




maintains automated build processes for all deployable artefacts


maintains and updates cm artefact templates for use by project teams


establishes and controls baseline for concurrent project initiatives


designs and develops tools and utilities as appropriate to improve development and build process efficiency


ensures adequate technical documentation and training.


defines/maintains views/ & reports for use by team for managing defects


participates in code error problem solving and resolution.




 


planning, implementation & support




maintains deployable packages for qa and production.


aids in development of detailed plans and accurate estimates for completion of build, system testing and implementation phases of project.


supports development, testing and implementation plans within the team




 


relationships & communication 




effectively communicates and builds rapport with team members, stakeholders and interface groups using a variety of techniques and collaboration from initiation to close.


facilitates small group meetings for technical design, problem solving and task implementation.


resolves minor conflicts/issues and escalates others as appropriate.




 


development & coaching




continually enhances skills and builds knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business and information systems.




 


 


what you need to succeed:




currently enrolled in a co-operative education program at a post-secondary institution with a focus on computer science or equivalent


leadership acumen and a passion to apply it in a dynamic business environment


excellent interpersonal and highly developed communication skills (verbal and written)


confidence in working autonomously or as member of a team


capability to manage multiple priorities across a number of assignments and prioritize effectively


ability to resolve any minor conflicts/issues and escalate to others as appropriate


strong ms office skills – word, outlook, excel and powerpoint


strong problem solving and troubleshooting skills


experience and knowledge of .net framework


knowledge of team foundation server (tfs)


knowledge of product build tools (visual studio)


knowledge of software configuration management practices and tools


knowledge or experience with different testing tools (ex. ms test) is considered an asset


experience with packaging and deployment technologies is considered an asset




 


how to apply:


please submit your cover letter, resume, and academic transcripts online at
 
www.rbc.com/careers
 
by 
june 28, 2015.


 


in order for your application to be considered, please specify the university or college you are currently attending and your program of study on the application form. 


we thank all interested candidates; however, only those selected for an interview will be contacted.


at rbc diversity and inclusion are at the heart of bringing out the best in all our people.


 


 


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
88 queens quay w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
contract
 


pay type:
  
hourly
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
06/28/2015
 


req id:
  
88050


posting notes:  
none


