Title:FX Trading  Development Team Lead (Capital Markets Technology) Core Java / RESTful / FIX
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-25
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-FX-Distribution-Development-Team-Lead-ON/224083300/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


the primary   of this role is to provide senior level technology and team management expertise in developing high availability real-time distributed fx trading systems.


 


the candidate will display excellent technical, organizational, and motivational ability aligned to sustained experience within a high-performance technology environment.  this will require knowledge of distributed multithreaded development, messaging systems and ability to integrate these with external systems.  strong knowledge of the fx market is essential.


 


the candidate will manage at least one project as post of the distribution stream of work, they will be the “go to” person for the business sponsor, ensure timely and accurate communication of any risks or issues and ensure the project stays within the overall strategic plan of the programme.


 


the candidate will work effectively as part of a global team to design and implement real-time solutions.


 


primary responsibilities


 




manager members of the e-commerce development team to deliver solutions to the business


manage at lease one project with the distribution (whistler, fx cash rfq ecommerce) stream of work


ensure that tactical and strategic solutions dovetail.


contribute to the overall design and development of the real-time solutions for fx pricing, trading and risk management.


work closely with business sponsors to understand their requirements and architect, design, and execute technical solutions.


provide guidance and mentoring for new team members as necessary.


identify business, technology and people risks associated with a solution.


assist with 2nd line support as necessary




 


key relationships


 




position reports to fx it management


functional management of local / global development teams


partner with peers from the front office, other technology teams, and support and test personnel




authorities, impact, risk




advises on key design and implementation decisions within fx pricing, trading and risk technology


supports and mentors more junior team members




competencies


behavioural




ability to meet client needs without sacrificing deadlines and quality


ability to break problems into well-defined and manageable tasks


ability to work effectively within global team


good written and communication skills


ability to liaise with traders, middle office, and it


highly motivated and takes initiative


ability to cope with changing priorities


takes accountability for own work


aligns immediate needs with long-term strategies


abides by the rbccm code of conduct




technical




significant experience developing, maintaining, and deploying high-performance, low-latency applications.


design abilities, which will involve building designing and deploying managed and unmanaged solutions.


multithreaded skills & use of current java open-source libraries and frameworks


knowledge of messaging middleware systems




education &/or experience


required




experience running more than one project simultaneously


significant industrial experience dedicated to fx front office technology (pricing, risk, liquidity aggregation, high frequency trading, ecommerce, etc).


significant experience designing, implementing and delivering multithreaded, distributed high-availability real-time software.


experience working closely with other developers using an agile software development approach


experience effectively applying technology best practices and processes to a high-paced capital markets organization


qa automated testing and process




preferred




knowledge of the capital markets


knowledge of front-office fx trading


experience with solace systems middleware


experience with sybase databases and/or oracle coherence




working conditions




located in downtown toronto, minimal travel required


high pressure, fast paced and demading enviroment.


ability to prioritize multiple priorities effectively.


effectively function within a highly matrixed, global team (london, new york, toronto)


flexibilty to quickly adjust to changes in a dynamic enviroment.




 


*li-as2


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
155 wellington st w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
yes
 


job posting end date:
  
12/31/2014
 


req id:
  
68994


posting notes:  
sf:wk


 


 


