Title:Compensation Coordinator Co-op
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-24
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Compensation-Coordinator-Co-op-ON/275709100/
-------------------------------------------
purpose:


 


this position has responsibility for the compensation processing; reporting and monthly system updates to ensure the program is properly updated, administered and monitored. 


 


responsible for the monthly distribution and preparation of sales force reports and all related monthly reporting to finance.  analyze, prepare and submit head tax adjustments and discuss any related issues.


 


what you will be doing:


 




responsible for the system activities including maintenance, file preparation, clean up and updating monthly accounts productivity


responsible for the monthly processing and quarterly sales force top-up commission payments


coordinate, prepare and submit  pay schedules


prepare and submit private trust referral fee payments


responsible for the monthly distribution and preparation of staff statistics and all related monthly reporting to finance.  analyze, prepare and submit head tax adjustments and discuss any related issues.


responsible for preparation, maintaining and distribution of monthly benefits and all analysis reports.  analyze and discuss related issues.


responsible for reporting quarterly scorecard


responsible for coordinating & ensuring all relative files for monthly reporting is properly administered


monitor and analyze balancing of various balance sheets






responsible for any ad hoc reports.




 


what you need to succeed:

 




currently enrolled in a post-secondary program with a focus on business or commerce


leadership acumen and a passion to apply it in a dynamic business environment


excellent interpersonal and highly developed communication skills (verbal and written)


confidence in working autonomously or as member of a team


capability to manage multiple priorities across a number of assignments and prioritize effectively


ability to resolve any minor conflicts/issues and escalate to others as appropriate


strong ms office skills – word, outlook, excel and powerpoint


experience with administering and maintaining compensation programs


ability to foster strong working relationships with internal and external business partners; customer service oriented


ability to work independently but escalate problems when required


assume responsibility to resolve customer problems at first point of contact, and follow up with the customer concerns


high attention to detail


excellent organization skills


intermediate accounting knowledge




 


how to apply:


 


please submit your cover letter, unofficial transcript and resume online by
 june 29, 2015


 


we thank all interested candidates; however, only those selected for an interview will be contacted.


 


at rbc diversity and inclusion are at the heart of bringing out the best in all our people.



	 




diversity:




diversity in the workplace, one of our shared values, lies at the heart of our rewarding, open, supportive and inclusive work environment. we respect and respond to the many competing and evolving priorities in our lives so you can focus on what you can do best – put clients first. 



	 




eoe/m/f/d/v



	 




about rbc: 

	interested in finding out more? click 
here
. 



	 


