Title:Service Request Management Process & Governance Manager
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-11
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Service-Request-Management-Process-&-Governance-Manager-ON/273047100/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


responsible for leading and overseeing service request management procedures and enforcing governance of all related processes to facilitate alignment of business services to it services, establishing process frameworks, and managing it service catalogue.


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles.


 


primary responsibilities


project planning & execution




provides a framework to align it technologies to business mission, strategy, and organization culture.


captures existing processes.


sets direction, establishes standards, principles and best practices.


manages it service catalogue.


develops and implements service request process governance by creating value and benefits while optimizing risk and resources.


measures and improves service delivery through the service owners, service level agreements and monitoring.






creates metrics and manages with a higher level of information i.e. at the trends and management indicator level; differentiates between project and program metrics.






champions strong it governance in the project decision framework.






resolves ambiguity.






promotes innovative or improved methods to get the work done and implements best practices.




 


 


relationships & communication 




provides superior client experience and strengthens relationship with business partner and service providers.


collaborates with colleagues across the organization to get things done.


adapts readily to fast paced environment.  high accountability and follow-through on activities.


works effectively with a variety of personalities and interacts with senior levels of the organization to achieve process best practices.


demonstrates ability to be neutral and deal with the factual information in situations.


coordinates and contributes to multiple initiatives and deadlines concurrently and manages shifting priorities and time pressure.




 


managerial excellence




demonstrates a collaborative work ethic and enterprise wide mindset in the performance of duties.






promotes a mindset for sustained success, growth and diversity.






spearheads and guides people through changes.






develops self and motives team, works through others, intellectual curiosity and creativity.


provides focus and clarity in establishing individual goals, driving performance management


leverages the value in unit, department, and enterprise wide teams to develop better solutions and achieve a cross enterprise mindset.




 


how time will be allocated:


 


30% process and governance


30% it service catalogue management


20% oversight and challenge


20% vendor relationship management


 


behavioural competencies (for superior performance)




breakthrough thinking (3)


business acumen (5)


customer insight (5)


dealing with ambiguity (6)


strategic influencing (5)


teamwork and cooperation (7)


change leadership (5)


developing others (6)




 


experience (to enter position)




demonstrated leadership ability




 


education




undergraduate degree or equivalent experience


excellent verbal and written communication skills




 


*li- kk1


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
315 front st west, 2nd floor
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
people manager
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
yes
 


job posting end date:
  
06/27/2015
 


req id:
  
91631


posting notes:  
none


 


 


