Title:Intermediate Technical Systems Analyst – Rewards & Loyalty
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-17
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Intermediate-Technical-Systems-Analyst-Rewards-&-Loyalty-ON/274263400/
-------------------------------------------
purpose:


 


partners across it and with assigned business line(s) to assess, research, and analyze business, technical and system needs in order to resolve business systems issues by recommending technology solutions that meet sponsor/stakeholder needs. 


 


context
 is small to medium development or maintenance projects (multiple functions, single application at one time). emphasis is split between testing, technical analysis and design. this specific role will support the 
rewards & loyalty
 team on mid-tier, online and mobile delivery projects related to the rbc rewards loyalty program.


 


primary responsibilities:


 


technical analysis, design & specification




using different techniques and tools (top-down, oo, rational rose), designs technical solutions that meet business requirements and plc deliverables including component reusability, data sharing and security.


coordinates design phases for small to medium projects/programs, identifying, tracking and resolving technical issues.


prepares detailed technical specifications in accordance with all project office objectives for plc and documentation.


organizes and participates in walkthrough reviews of technical specifications, programs and unit test plans.




 


coding, testing & documentation




design, code, unit & assembly test for functions of low to medium complexity.


writes unit test plans and provides coordination and support of testing


completes technical documentation and training material.




 


planning, implementation & support




provides estimates on activities/tasks required to perform design, coding and unit testing, improving accuracy over time.


performs performance tuning to improve performance of single function.


low level planning of work packages meeting project objectives within budget and on time.


provides third-level support of applications, database etc.




 


relationships & communication 




effectively communicates and builds rapport with team members, stakeholders and interface groups using a variety of techniques and collaboration from initiation to close.


facilitates small to medium size group meetings for technical design, problem solving and task implementation.


prepares and delivers presentations to technology partners.


resolves minor conflicts/issues and escalates others as appropriate.




 


development & coaching




provides direction, expertise, feedback, coaching and development to build the capability of junior technical development staff.


continually enhances skills and builds knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business and information systems.




 


position requirements:


 


education/experience




professional with experience on applications with single functions






preference will be given to candidates with experience in 
card based payments
 solutions, including point-of-sale (pos) and merchant acquiring-side capabilities.




 


process knowledge




different testing tools (e.g. nunit, mercury, devpartner, fxcop) (d)


different design techniques (e.g. oo. top-down, structured analysis, component-based design) and tools (e.g. visio, freemind) (p)


communication skills (d)


facilitation skills (d)


presentation skills (d)


risk assessment & quantification methodologies (d)


conflicts and issues resolution and escalation (d)




 


business knowledge




business line(s)’ business applications/ processes. (d)




 


systems knowledge




different programming languages (e.g. html5, css, mobile sdks, mobiex, mobiliser, java, jee, jsp, ibm portal,  c#, c++, c, html/javascript, vb.net, cobol, jcl) (p)


multiple platforms e.g. mainframe, internet, client/server, cloud and ability to select appropriate one to meet business needs (d)


it standards, methodologies, cmm & audit requirements (p)


configuration management practices (d)


middleware technologies: (ex. mqseries, websphere, http, wxf, xml) (d)




 


role-specific skills:




cloud services and integration


web services – soap, rest, json


java, javascript, html, css


responsive and adaptive web design


native mobile application development – ios, android, cross platform (cordova, phonegap)


security e.g. oauth standards


data modeling and architecture


agile development experience


analysis skills


process design


ux design


api management tools, experience with ibm’s bluemix garage is an asset




 


behavioural competencies:


 




achievement motivation (3)


breakthrough thinking (1)


business acumen (2)


customer insight (2)


dealing with ambiguity (2)


strategic influencing (2)


teamwork & cooperation (3)


analytical thinking (3)




 


 


relationships:


 










reports to:






 


development manager/ sr. tsa


 










business partners






• digital strategy


• insurance


• direct investing


• dominion securities


• contact centre


• business unit


• it project and group managers


• enterprise architects, solution architects and/or lead architects


• vendor project managers and teams










technical partners






• application development/maintenance teams


• business systems analysis teams


• qa team


• test facility teams


• wccoe team


• infrastructure


• microsoft technology and middleware group


• information security


• infrastructure and deployment


• qa and configuration management team


• production implementation and support team










 


working conditions:


 




standard office environment


potential for periodic stress related to people management and project challenges and deadlines


minimal travel




 


time allocation:


 


30%
 - code development/maintenance


25%
 - qa support


20%
 - documentation review & walkthrough


15%
 - design


10%
 - maintenance/production support


 


authorities, impact, & risk:


 




decision authority: low & mid-level design


scope, complexity & risk: small to medium


sizing: small to medium


impact: low to medium




 


 


*li-kk1


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
88 queens quay west
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
07/03/2015
 


req id:
  
92034


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


 


 


