Title:Senior Project Manager-Workflow-Global Solution Centre (Global Wealth Management Technology)
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-10
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Senior-Project-Manager-Workflow-Global-Solution-Centre-%28Global-Wealth-Management-Technology%29-ON/266751300/
-------------------------------------------
key accountabilities


 


• seeks out industry trends and organization knowledge to understand alternative approaches / solutions.

• recommends best solutions incorporating build, buy or wait based on understanding of business issues.

• develops integrated baseline project plans adapting estimating models as required, documents estimating assumptions, refines plans and manages performance against them.

• provides schedule and costs forecasts including risk based provisions.

• identifies resources and skills required.

• captures and tracks metrics and performs trend analysis.

• applies program decision framework (who does what; how to communicate) and contributes to its ongoing improvement.

• manages project scope/requirements changes, multiple and competing demands and priorities determining and conveying impact on budget, time and risk using appropriate fact-based metrics/assumptions.

• determines quality standards and oversees the execution/production of project deliverables and management documents.

• identifies and manages project costs and budgets.

• anticipates operational and tactical risks and tracks them using the appropriate methodology.

• raises and tracks issues and conflicts, removes barriers, resolves issues of medium complexity involving stakeholders and escalates to appropriate level where required.

• identifies and resolves/escalates potential conflicts between long-term architecture direction and project constraints.

• assesses ambiguous situations and provides clarity to team and stakeholders as required.

• promotes innovative or improved methods to get the work done and implements best practices.

• manages project closure initiatives.

• provides superior client experience and strengthens relationship with business partner.

• collaborates with colleagues across the organization to get things done.

• manages project communications including status reports to all stakeholders.

• provides senior management with timely updates on project issues.

• recommends external vendors and third parties and manages the relationships at the project level.


overall, your main accountabilities will be broken down as follows:

60% project planning and execution

30% relationship and communication

5% creating solutions

5% vendor management


 


 


knowledge / experience:


 


previous wealth management experience/knowledge including: business and operational processing, marketplace trends and workflow and middle tier technologies with an excellent track record. experience in pega
/
prpc
 (pegarules process commander)
 and 
ibm 
wmb
 (websphere message broker)
/iib
 (ibm integration bus)
 technologies is a plus.

previous success managing multiple projects simultaneously ($500k to $5m, 6 to 12 months in duration) or one larger project ($5m+, 12+ months in duration)

demonstrated leadership ability.

5+ years of project manager experience: project plan development and management, work breakdown structures, task based plans, assumption and risk based plans, base-lining and scheduling, scheduling methodology (cpm, gert, pert), metrics creation, gathering, reporting, analysis, education and meta model creation.

waterfall, agile, iterative, risk assessment and quantification methodologies. large project experience with iterative methodology is a plus.

change management ability


cost/benefit analysis & alternatives identification

budgeting, project costs management

quality controls

excellent communication skills both written and verbal including, presentation and facilitation, communication management



required accreditation(s): pmp certification, or working towards achieving certification.


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
180 wellington street
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
05/31/2015
 


req id:
  
89670


posting notes:  
none


 


 


