Title:Sr. Java Developer - FX trading (Capital Markets) Core Java, FIX, REST, FX, Trading IT
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-09
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Sr_-Java-Developer-FX-trading-%28Capital-Markets%29-Core-Java%2C-FIX%2C-REST%2C-FX%2C-Trading-IT-ON/272587400/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


 


the primary   of this role is to provide java technology expertise in developing high availability, real-time distributed fx trading systems.


 


the candidate will display excellent motivational, and technical ability aligned to significant experience within a high-performance software development environment. this will require knowledge of multithreaded development, messaging systems, and ability to integrate these with external systems.   strong ability to communicate well and work constructively as part of a team are essential.


 


knowledge of capital markets in general and the fx market in particular is desirable but not essential.


 


 


primary responsibilities


 




contribute to the overall design and development of real-time solutions for fx trading, risk management, booking, and pricing


work with other team members to ensure high quality software development in line with the agreed strategic approach


perform initial integration testing of own work to ensure a complete and correct solution in addition to assisting official support and test teams in performing their functions


identify business, technology and people risks associated with a solution


assist with 2nd line support as necessary.


mentor junior developers on the team




 


 


authorities, impact, risk


 




works under the guidance of the fx technology team management


works closely with other team members to ensure joint ownership of a quality solution




 


 


key relationships


 




position reports to fx it management


partner with peers from the front office, other technology teams, and support and test personnel




 


 


working conditions


 




located in downtown toronto, minimal travel required


high pressure, fast paced and demading enviroment.


ability to prioritize multiple priorities effectively.


effectively function within a highly matrixed, global team (london, new york, toronto)


flexibilty to quickly adjust to changes in a dynamic enviroment.




 


 


education &/or experience


 


required




excellent core java


significant experience designing, implementing and delivering multithreaded, distributed high-availability real-time software.


experience working closely with other developers using an agile software development approach


experience effectively applying technology best practices and processes to a high-paced organization


qa automated testing and process




 


preferred




knowledge of the capital markets


knowledge of front-office fx trading


experience with reuters rmds middleware


experience with 29west lbm & umq middleware




 


technical




significant experience developing, maintaining, and deploying high-performance, low-latency applications.


design abilities, which will involve building designing and deploying managed and unmanaged solutions.


multithreaded skills & use of current java open-source libraries and frameworks


knowledge of messaging middleware systems




 


*li-as2


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
155 wellington street w.
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
06/24/2015
 


req id:
  
91096


posting notes:  
n/a


 


 


