Title:Sr. IT Project Manager
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-20
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Sr_-IT-Project-Manager-ON/262685200/
purpose


plans, directs and coordinates activities of assigned projects to ensure project goals and objectives are accomplished within approved timeframe, scope and budget.  under some direction, effectively manages projects. refer to authorities for project criteria.


 


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles.


 


primary responsibilities


project planning & execution




initiates projects and manages the definition of high level scope.






recommends best solutions based on understanding of business issues.


manages client expectations.


develops integrated baseline project plans applying estimating models, documents estimating assumptions, refines plans and manages performance against them.


provides task based schedule and cost forecasts and assists in assessing risk based provisions.


identifies resources and skills required.






captures and tracks metrics and performs limited analysis.


applies program decision framework (who does what; how to communicate).


manages project scope by assessing requirements changes, determining and conveying impact on budget, time and risk.


determines quality standards and oversees the execution/production of project deliverables and management documents.


identifies and manages project costs and budgets.


anticipates operational and some tactical risks and tracks them.


raises and tracks issues and conflicts, removes barriers, resolves minor project issues and escalates to immediate manager where required.


identifies and escalates potential conflicts between long-term architecture direction and project constraints.


seeks clarity in business requirements or escalates as appropriate.






promotes innovative or improved methods to get the work done and implements best practices






manages project closure initiatives.




 


relationships & communication  




provides superior client experience and strengthens relationship with business partner.


collaborates with colleagues across the organization to get things done.






manages project communications including status reports to all stakeholders.


provides senior management with timely updates on project issues.






may utilize single vendor/3rd party of known capacity and manages the relationship.




 


managerial excellence




sets direction for the team.






builds project management capability on the team.






manages performance, reward and recognition.






holds team leaders accountable for managerial work.






coaches and mentors team leaders.






establishes succession plan for key positions, including own.


selects and builds a high performing diverse team that leverages individual capabilities and strengths.






promotes a mindset for sustained success, growth and diversity.


spearheads and guides people through changes


develops self.




 


experience (to enter position)




leadership ability


successfully demonstrated contribution to projects in work package leader capacity




 


education




rbc project management excellence program in progress
	


undergraduate degree or equivalent experience








 


pm knowledge




project plan development & management


work breakdown structure






task based plans


assumption & risk based plans


base-lining & scheduling






scheduling methodology (cpm, gert, pert)






waterfall and iterative methodologies






project metrics gathering






project metrics reporting


project metrics analysis






project metrics trend analysis & education


project metrics creation






program plan and metrics






program governance


meta model creation






risk assessment & quantification methodologies


issues escalation and resolution


facilitation skills






scope change management






cost/benefit analysis & alternatives identification






budgeting, project costs management


quality controls


procurement


communication management & plans




 


systems knowledge




knowledge of relevant technology


knowledge of it standards, methodologies, cmm & audit requirements




 


business knowledge




general knowledge of factors affecting business






bu specific strategies & critical success factors


trends in the marketplace/ technology




 


people management knowledge




rbc hr philosophy, principles, direction, policies & guidelines


talent management process (recruitment/selection, performance management, performance development/coaching, reward/ recognition)






workforce planning


job design


organization design




 


*li- kk1


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
180 wellington st west
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
05/08/2015
 


req id:
  
88351


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


