Title:Jr-Int. GUI Developer
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-17
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Jr-Int_-GUI-Developer-ON/274251200/
-------------------------------------------
purpose:


 


risk data aggregation and risk reporting it (rdarr it) provides system development and support to rdarr program.   the rdarr it develops core new systems and tools to support rdarr business processes including rdarr portal, rdarr measurement system,  data transparency layer based on hadoop and integration with a wide range of risk systems and repositories across the enterprise.     these tools will require new and easy to use user interfaces to access the functionality and visualize and report on the data. 


 


this position provides entry level development services for the full stack of rich web based  front-end and graphical user interface application for the rdarr tools.   the candidate is responsible for design, development, testing,  implementation and documentation of web front-end applications using agile and other sdlc methodologies


 


context 
is small to medium development or maintenance projects  (multiple functions, single application at one time). emphasis is split between testing, technical analysis and design.


 


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles


 


primary  responsibilities:


 


technical analysis, design & specification




using different techniques and tools (top-down, mvc, oo, rational rose), designs technical solutions that meet business requirements and plc deliverables including component reusability, data sharing and security.


coordinates design phases for small to medium projects/programs, identifying, tracking and resolving technical issues.


prepares detailed technical specifications in accordance with all project office objectives for plc and documentation.


organizes and participates in walkthrough reviews of all technical specifications, programs and unit test plans.


co-ordinates and provides input to backend developers on interfaces


 




coding, testing & documentation




develops, codes, documents programs of average to high complexity using different languages.


writes unit test plans and provides coordination and support of testing using different tools.


prepares distribution lists and om documentation.


completes technical documentation and training material.






co-ordinates testing of joint project plans, evaluating vendors and 3
rd
 party software based upon set criteria.




 


planning, implementation & support




provides estimates on activities/tasks required to perform design, coding and unit testing, improving accuracy over time.


coordinates implementation planning and execution.






performs performance tuning to improve performance of single function..


provides on-call support of applications, database etc.




 


relationships & communication




facilitates small to medium size group meetings for technical design, problem solving and task implementation.






prepares and delivers presentations to technology partners.


resolves minor conflicts/issues and escalates others as appropriate




 


development & coaching




continually enhances skills and builds knowledge in all aspects of the development,  organization, the business and information systems.




 


position requirements/specifications 


behavioural competencies
 (for superior performance)




achievement motivation


breakthrough thinking


business acumen


customer insight


dealing with ambiguity


strategic influencing


teamwork & cooperation


analytical thinking




 


education/experience
 
(to enter position)




professional with experience on applications with single functions


computer science /engineering undergraduate degree




 


process knowledge




different testing tools (e.g. expediter, file-aid)


different design techniques (e.g. oo. mvc, top-down, structured analysis, component-based design) and tools (e.g. rational rose).


communication skills


facilitation skills


presentation skills


risk assessment & quantification methodologies


conflicts and issues resolution and escalation




 


business knowledge




capital markets, banking, and/or data management  business applications/ processes an asset




 


systems knowledge




red hat linux cluster to manage tomcat instance


java development on back end restful layer (spring, jersey) to develop web services, javascript (angularjs), html, css development


html5, css3 and javascript and widely used libraries (jquery, bootstrap, angularjs) and structures (json).


tomcat and web services.


unit testing with junit or similar tool.


object oriented programming with java.


unix/linux os, including shell programming.


relational database (sql server) big data columnar database (vertica), hadoop data constructs (hdfs)


it standards, methodologies, cmm & audit requirements




 


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
155 wellington st w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
06/29/2015
 


req id:
  
92026


posting notes:  
none


