Title:Senior Systems Management Specialist
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-19
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Senior-Systems-Management-Specialist-ON/274823700/
purpose


this position is part of the team responsible for the support and development of the enterprise monitoring systems used within rbc capital markets. reporting to the manager of the monitoring group the incumbent will drive bsm (business service magement) solutions and deliver to the it support teams. as a senior post a high level of professionalism, industry knowledge and drive is required to ensure the service provided matches the businesses needs.


 


primary responsibilities


 




act as lead point of contact for application teams for all systems monitoring & service modelling queries.


development and support of the global itrs geneos service


support and manage the netiq noc (managed objects) service / infrastructure.


provide support for the groundwork & mom/scom services / infrastructure in association with esm.


support and manage for ganglia and scom performance metrics


work with application and infrastructure teams to advise on monitoring approaches and strategies.


evaluate and implement new monitoring tools and processes.


participate in review of alert escalation processes and procedures


issue and problem management.


provide out-of-hours cover for appropriate technologies.


participation in strategic technology initiatives across infrastructure silos where appropriate.




key relationships






capital markets infrastructure and application support teams






global infrastructure services managers & senior managers




project management office




 




enterprise systems management




 




key vendors (e.g. itrs, netiq, groundwork, microsoft, cisco)




education & experience


required




high level of expertise in enterprise systems management:
	


event monitoring


capacity planning


performance management


workload automation






good understanding of information dashboard design.


background supporting mission critical systems.


understanding business challenges and providing solutions.


delivery of medium/large scale it infrastructure projects.


good level of presentation skills




competencies


behavioural




good problem solving skills.


ability to manage and prioritise own and team tasks.


managing change across diverse regions.


build partnerships across the organisation.


focus on it service delivery.


developing people through coaching and mentoring.




 


technical




scripting (shell, perl, batch and java)


strong linux/unix knowledge


itrs geneos


mom/scom


netiq noc (managed objects)


nagios / groundwork


ganglia


zabbix


splunk


windows




preferred




degree educated.


investment banking experience.




 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
315 front street
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
06/26/2015
 


req id:
  
92196


posting notes:  
none


