Title:Sr. .Net Developer - Global Equities (Capital Markets Technology) Fixed Income/CSC/ C#, ASP.NET
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-22
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Sr_-_Net-Developer-Global-Equities-%28Capital-Markets-Technology%29-Fixed-IncomeCSC-C%2C-ASP_NET-ON/275116300/
-------------------------------------------
purpose:


 


the canadian mortgage investment group project is seeking a senior .net developer to support the trading desk. more specifically the incumbent will be responsible for:


 


primary responsibilities:


 




enhancing .net components, including an asp.net mvc web application. these components cover front office valuation models, as well as models for market risk analytics and pnl.


acting as technical contact with the vendor for an externally developed product used by the business.


providing 1st line support for internally developed components and 2nd line support for the vendor application.


writing database queries to extract data from ms sql 2008 to facilitate business reports.


directly interfacing with the trading desk to understand requirements and existing functionality.


following bank processes and keeping documentation up to date. excellent organizational skills required.


putting together accurate development timelines and estimates.


troubleshooting minor windows server and network issues.




 


mandatory skills and experience for this position are:


 




bachelor’s degree in engineering or computer science discipline required


minimum 5 years professional experience in capital markets






strong .net/c#/asp.net mvc knowledge


strong transact-sql, database design knowledge and experience with performance tuning.


experience with unit testing and build automation.


excellent communication skills, both verbal and written, are essential. incumbent will be dealing directly with business users from front office, market risk, product control and operations.


completion of csc (canadian securities course) or cfa is highly beneficial


strong understanding of fixed income principals, e.g. cash flow modeling, yield curves


must be self-motivated, able to work independently


must be highly responsive to time critical support issues


ability to work in a high pressure, fast moving and challenging environment




 


 


*li-as2


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
155 wellington street w.
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
07/09/2015
 


req id:
  
91939


posting notes:  
n/a


 


 


