Title:Development Manager (Risk IT/RDARR)
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-27
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Development-Manager-%28Risk-ITRDARR%29-ON/270285800/
-------------------------------------------
purpose:
 


lead and manage all aspects of development from conception to implementation of the core new systems in rdarr program – data transparency layer and rdarr portal applications through hands on development as well as leading and guiding of development team. 


partners with it and business stakeholders to ensure high quality design and delivery of  strategic applications in rdarr program that balance the agility, flexibility,  strategic reuse and timelines and cost of projects.


primary responsibilities




build and lead development team


architect, design,  build and operationalize data ingestion for  data transparency layer and rdarr portal applications for rdarr program


provide architecture and design leadership for the systems


establish agile and sdlc processes as well as development best practices following enterprise policies, tools and processes


hands on development and provide leadership and expert guidance to development teams and project resources.


setting a development agenda that aggressively delivers value to our business sponsors.


work closely with requirements, business stakeholders, program/project resources to break large problems into well-defined and manageable tasks


ensure that sound development practices are followed, requirements and timelines are met, and quality software is released with high quality and up to date documentation.


participate in the prioritization of technical initiatives and releases.


manage vendor engagements with development partners and application providers.


work closely with application support, infrastructure and other teams to ensure all aspects of application robustness and resiliency including system management, availability, security,  back and recovery and dr


manage client and project needs and expectations and provide highlevel of customer service in daily client interactions.


provide continuous feedback and coaching through formal and informal methods, provide people management of team members


ensure that employees understand rbc vision, as well as support and reinforce targeted behaviours that contribute to the rbc goals.


provide focus and clarity in establishing individual goals, driving performance management, supporting career development and rewarding strong performance.




 


capabilities and skills required


technical




required: demonstrated leadership ability of a technology team.


required: minimum ten years practical experience with large enterprise application development and support.


required: extensive, hands-on experience with java or .net. familiarity with other programming languages desirable.


expert knowledge of software design principles and architecture patterns,  including algorithms, data structures, computational complexity, multi-threading,  performance and scalability,  secure design,  data centric design etc.


detailed knowledge of application and service design, portal development, continuous integration, test driven design, etl,  data integration and bi portals.


required: minimum of five years of experience with the following technologies:




unix/linux,  shell


java,  j2ee,  html5, sql, rest , tomcat and java server technologies


ms sql server and/ or sybase, oracle, mysql






preferred: experience with the following technologies:




spring, robot framework, 


jpa and or hibernate


tomcat and or jboss


autosys and or tidal


windows .net,  hadoop platform and tooling


infrastructure and capacity planning






preferred: experience working with and managing 3
rd
 party vendors.




education




required: university degree, preferably graduate in computer science, finance, mathematics or physical sciences.


preferred: completion of certification such as the canadian securities course or similar experience.


strong business analysis and project management skills.




systems knowledge




knowledge of it standards, methodologies, project life cycle and audit requirements.


expert knowledge in agile development and other software development processes and tools


experience in business analysis, in particular business workflow, functional specification, use case documentation.




business knowledge




trends in the industry / technology market place.


preferred: minimum of five years of experience in the capital markets and core banking businesses


preferred: good understanding of market, credit, and/or liquidity risk management, and related  risk metrics such as var and stress scenarios.


experience with front-to-back data flows and market data.




authorities, impact, risk




manage system delivery for medium complexity systems


acts within authorized authorities and limits and aligns approach with pmf


accountable for strategic delivery of new rdarr technical capabilities


organizational significance:  interact with multiple systems teams across enterprise


time to market: critical (tight compliance timeline driven)


business risk:  low


resource management: directs


vendor/ 3
rd
 party involvement: multiple it teams


technology complexity: moderately complex




key relationships


reports to rdarr lead architect


business partners




rdarr program authoritative sources, data quality, reconciliation streams   business stakeholders


rdarr architecture and program management teams


data sourcing, data quality, reconciliation in risk areas




 


technical partners:




all risk data systems in credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk, operational risk and other data provisioning and consolidation systems across enterprise


eim hadoop team


rtb and other infrastructure teams




working conditions 


office/trading floor


diversity in the workplace, one of our shared values, lies at the heart of our rewarding, open, supportive and inclusive


work environment. we respect and respond to the many competing and evolving priorities in our lives so you can


focus on what you can do best – put clients first.


time allocation




defining business and technical requirements, analyzing potential developments, and prioritization: 20%


hands-on management of development initiatives, including architecture, design, and direct participation in the delivery of new systems, enhancements and fixes:  50%


staff management: 10%


manage projects from start to finish, provide status and transparency to business and senior tech management: 10%




 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
155 wellington st w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
people manager
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
05/29/2015
 


req id:
  
90799


posting notes:  
none


