Title:Cloud Communications  & Program Knowledge PMO Lead
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-18
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Cloud-Communications-&-Program-Knowledge-PMO-Lead-ON/274546900/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


provide communications planning and execution to a complex, multi-year it transformation program the cloud program will have significant implications to the t&o organization globally (process, behavioural, cultural and technological).


 


primary responsibilities


 




develops and coordinates team and broad-based business-specific communications and activities in orientation, with the   of increasing knowledge-transfer, team effectiveness and buy-in of the business strategy.


plans, coordinates and executes tasks and activities of assigned project components through internal and partner subject matter experts. 


together with the program director, program lead and the director, communication t&o, the role provides guidance, advice and counsel on all program communications matters for the duration of the transformation to the vice-president, enterprise\ architecture, t&o executives as well as project initiative leads.




 




provides guidance to team members on how their work is connected to the rbc strategy so that individual and team priorities may be set and achieved




 


project management and execution:


 




provide direction on communication approach for urgent issues and dependent projects; emphasize alignment of communications with leadership actions (manage the say/do gap), pmo services, document management and knowledge sharing


research, develop, implement and manage communications plans, processes & tools/tactics as appropriate. measure effectiveness.


mange the creation and coordination of content, execution and maintenance of various communication vehicles for stakeholder: orientation presentation, education sessions, which will include rbc connect, weekly or bi-weekly team updates as indicated etc.   




development, mentoring and coaching




continually enhance skills and build knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business, and information technology.


provide expertise, training, direction, feedback, and coaching to build the capability of more junior staff




 


authorities, impact, risk




initiative has high employee impact; effective communication will be critical to delivery of an enhanced employee and client experience and improved business performance (internal / external). 


large and complex project.  timing, execution and issues management of communication elements will be ongoing and critical to success this strategic initiative




 


job specifications


required:




post-secondary degree: communications related studies (public relations, communication, english, physiology)


5-8 years of proven experience in cross function teams, industries or groups with an ability to influence consensus


experience in issues management and change management communications (internal/external)


exceptional knowledge of communication tools, templates and technology


experience and confidence with executives and senior management effectively presenting a point of view


project management knowledge and strong organizational & time management skills, deadline driven


awareness of highly regulated industries, including financial services and rbc


familiarity and practical experience leveraging social media and collaboration tools to drive communications strategy




 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
88 queens quay w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
yes
 


job posting end date:
  
06/30/2015
 


req id:
  
92114


posting notes:  
none


