Title:Director, Global Messaging Services
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-20
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Director-Global-Messaging-Services-ON/262716600/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


director – global messaging services leads and oversees the strategic & technical direction for the design, evolution and implementation of a suite of business critical systems including email, email archiving and e-discovery tooling, electronic fax and mobility solutions for rbc globally.  the incumbent sponsors and oversees transformational it programs as they pertain to messaging and mobility infrastructure, including mergers and acquisitions - ensuring strategic goals and objectives are accomplished within approved time frames, scope and budget.  this includes driving the technology and delivering on integration activities that align with rbc it infrastructure, reducing costs and improving service performance for the all lines of business.




people transformation – design and implement the people changes required to achieve robust and resilient messaging infrastructure (training & development, policies, etc.)


responsible for making substantive recommendations on the messaging services strategy for the enterprise. decisions will have a significant impact on success/failures of business initiatives and operations that rely on these services both long and short term


responsible for developing and executing on new messaging service opportunities to deliver to the enterprise


responsible for driving technology platform reviews and continuous improvement


responsible for collaborating with global teams in compliance, legal, lines of business and t&o  to gather business platform requirements and determine/recommend required changes to offered it services including  influencing  other t&o teams to deliver on interrelated upgrades and solutions


responsible for developing and managing to an annual budget of $9mm


responsible for design and delivery of infrastructure to support mobility strategy – one of 16 t&o initiatives




 


director – global messaging services is responsible for the overall customer experience of messaging services and is the recognized contact for all operational concerns/issues of this platform. the incumbent acts as key final escalation point for all problem resolution.


 


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles.


 


primary responsibilities 


leadership and strategic direction:




responsible/accountable for the design and implementation of a world class messaging service for rbc globally.  this includes email, archiving/journaling and mobile infrastructure (including byod services)


lead the delivery of robust and reliable ediscovery infrastructure across rbc globally to support compliance and legal requirements.


select suitable technologies to support business objectives.


manage an annual budget of >$9mm and continuously strives to decrease departmental infrastructure costs including maintenance and licensing with a goal of declining service rates.


provide quality assurance for messaging and mobile technologies.


participate in industry technical forums representing rbc interests.


manage technology vendor relationships to ensure service quality is met or exceeded


accountable to build a leadership team supporting the key technology pillars enabling the incumbent to focus on organizational change and services enhancement


lead, manage and coach a team of >17 individuals to ensure a high degree of experience and ability to deliver a world class messaging service.


lead integration activities related to corporate acquisitions into the rbc global messaging infrastructure.


capability to manage multiple technical projects and service disruptions simultaneously




 


operational efficiency and cost containment:




collaborates with t&o partners to ensure continued business responsiveness, risk mitigation, and operational stability of technologies and services supporting all rbc lines of business.


identifies opportunities to leverage core infrastructure services and leads initiatives to integrate services, driving cost reduction with adherence to it infrastructure common practices, governance and architecture standards.


applies creativity to reduce department/team costs and expenses impacting functional and business achievements


reduces costs and improves efficiency through integration and outsourcing.


governance & oversight of all global messaging services infrastructure activities


accountable for global messaging services operating plan


collaborates with global infrastructure teams on regional messaging services requirements.




 


relationship management:




establishes and maintains a service orientated, customer focused it function that supports ongoing operations that drive efficiency, quality, customer service and growth.


anticipates potential problems associated with messaging technologies and/or customer solutions and lead/agree on the risk management plan for implementation of solutions.


analyzes new and complex industry, technology, economic, and competitive situations taking into consideration real client needs and problems.


evaluates potential solutions and leads gti functions towards the adoption of optimal solutions – agrees on business assessment of solutions.


in collaboration with service management, oversees the negotiation and provision of high quality service levels for all rbc lines of business.


leads strategic and transformational proof of concept discussions, ensuring conflict is openly discussed and decisions made in the best interest of the organization.


participate in t&o steering committees in selecting external vendors, third parties and manages the relationships as they relate to gti


establishes strategic service provider partnerships




 


regulatory responsibilities:




runs the business with the applicable regulatory requirements, expectations and delegated authorities.


manages and reacts to rbc, sox or similar internal and external audits.


maintains systems within compliancy requirements.


maintains regular dialogue with rbc legal and compliance to ensure systems and services meet or exceed corporate and regulatory requirements




 


leadership competencies:




provides a superior client experience to all rbc lines of business when called upon.


maintains and strengthens relationships with t&o senior staff, heads of infrastructure business, finance/costing and gti executives


manages communications to all stakeholders and consumers


escalates conflicts/issues on a timely basis to groups within gti and proactively works towards mitigation and resolutions of issues and risks


leads by example in living rbc values (service, teamwork, responsibility, diversity, integrity) and ensures employees are motivated to make decisions in the best interests of clients.


role models rbc key behaviours (put clients first, collaborate as partners, develop people, act on our accountabilities make decisions faster, and prioritize for greatest impact).


abides by the code of conduct.


works well in a matrix environment


develops the team by creating and leveraging opportunities and growth as well as learning for all employees.


demonstrates the rbc leadership capabilities (drives shareholder value, leads with integrity, works strategically and builds enterprise excellence).


capability to develop technical content and present to senior executives




 


education / experience (to enter position):




professional with experience leading large complex enterprise-wide infrastructure projects/programs with multiple interfaces and/or 3rd parties


in depth knowledge of related infrastructure technologies and proven experience and success in design, implementation and support at an enterprise level of greater than 15,000 seats (messaging and wireless handheld technologies, internet technologies and protocols)  


ability to translate business strategy and articulate business needs.


exceptional communication, influencing and negotiating skills with the ability to communicate technical concepts in lay terms.


ability to lead and motivate staff and attract, develop and retain top talent




 


working conditions




stakeholders across multiple lines of business, geographies and time zones


position is considered inconsistent with reference to the amount of stress – ranging from mid to high levels


requires some travel to ensure effectiveness of mandate delivery


attention to detail and quality is crucial.


success will depend on influence in addition to direct authority




 


position requirements/specifications




requires cross functional negotiation and influencing skills to resolve problems and issues


ability to inspire, influence and guide individuals or teams towards a common direction and objective


ability to interact collaboratively with multiple groups and disciplines to develop and refine ideas


good understanding of all rbc lines of business and that translates to their infrastructure needs


high level understanding of all rbc infrastructure services and organization


demonstrate ability to drive deliverables to completion


strong customer service and consulting skills


collaborative skills and ability to handle complex issues, balancing strategic thinking and tactical skills


maturity level and skill/judgment to be able to deal effectively with senior managers/executives


effective collaborator – active listener, respectfully challenges, strong influencer and negotiator


strong facilitation and presentation skills as well as excellent written skills


ability to translate business “asks” into new or modified service requirements


strong at building relationships and influencing without authority




 


time allocation


client focused solutions - 20%


substantially improving efficiency & effectiveness – 20%


building a high performing team - 30%


financial accountability - 20%


regulatory responsibilities - 10%


 


*li-ts2


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
315 front st w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
yes
 


job posting end date:
  
06/28/2015
 


req id:
  
88268


posting notes:  
n/a


