Title:Jr.-Int. Technical Systems Analyst/Developer (GTO IT)
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-08
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-GTO-IT-Technical-Systems-AnalystDeveloper-ON/272243100/
-------------------------------------------
purpose:


partners across it and with assigned business line(s) to assess, research, and analyze business, technical and system needs in order to resolve business systems issues by recommending technology solutions that meet sponsor/stakeholder needs.


context
 is 
small to medium development or maintenance projects 
 (multiple functions, single application at one time). emphasis is split between testing, technical analysis and design.


 


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles.


 


primary  responsibilities:


 


technical analysis, design & specification




using different techniques and tools (top-down, oo, rational rose), designs technical solutions that meet business requirements and plc deliverables including component reusability, data sharing and security.


coordinates design phases for small to medium projects/programs, identifying, tracking and resolving technical issues.


prepares detailed technical specifications in accordance with all project office objectives for plc and documentation.


organizes and participates in walkthrough reviews of all technical specifications, programs and unit test plans.


co-ordinates and provides input to dba in modifying existing database structures for different types of databases (ims, db2, oracle, sql etc.)




 


coding, testing & documentation




develops, codes, documents programs of average to high complexity using different languages.


writes unit test plans and provides coordination and support of testing using different tools.


prepares distribution lists and om documentation.


completes technical documentation and training material.






co-ordinates testing of joint project plans, evaluating vendors and 3
rd
 party software based upon set criteria.




 


planning, implementation & support




provides estimates on activities/tasks required to perform design, coding and unit testing, improving accuracy over time.


coordinates implementation planning and execution.






performs database/disaster recovery for individual databases.


performs performance tuning to improve performance of single function.


high level planning of phases of projects meeting project objectives within budget and on time.


provides on-call support of applications, database etc.




 


relationships & communication




effectively communicates and builds rapport with team members, stakeholders and interface groups using a variety of techniques and collaboration from initiation to close.


facilitates small to medium size group meetings for technical design, problem solving and task implementation.






prepares and delivers presentations to technology partners.


resolves minor conflicts/issues and escalates others as appropriate.




 


development & coaching




provides direction, expertise, feedback, coaching and development to build the capability of more junior staff.


continually enhances skills and builds knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business and information systems




 


position requirements/specifications


behavioural competencies
 (for superior performance)




achievement motivation 


breakthrough thinking 


business acumen 


customer insight 


dealing with ambiguity


strategic influencing 


teamwork & cooperation 


analytical thinking 




 


education/experience
 
(to enter position)




professional with experience on applications with single functions




 


process knowledge




different testing tools (e.g. expediter, file-aid)


different design techniques (e.g. oo. top-down, structured analysis, component-based design) and tools (e.g. rational rose).






communication skills






facilitation skills


presentation skills


risk assessment & quantification methodologies


conflicts and issues resolution and escalation




 


business knowledge




business line(s)’ business applications/ processes.




 


systems knowledge




.net c#, ,net applications, asp, .net and ajax


sql server 2005, t-sql and stored procedures


ibm data stage, cognos bi, cognos tm1, korn shell scripting


different programming languages (e.g. cobol, jcl, java, c, html, vb, visual c++)






multiple platforms e.g. mvs, internet, client/server


it standards, methodologies, cmm & audit requirements


middleware technologies (ex. mqseries/websphere, wxf, xml, .net)




 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
155 wellington st w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
06/19/2015
 


req id:
  
91360


posting notes:  
none


 


 


