Title:Senior Technical Service Analyst
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-17
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Senior-Technical-Service-Analyst-ON/274221800/
-------------------------------------------
purpose:


working within the global distribution services team, the incumbent will carry out support activities required to provide software distribution services to windows based assets for business units within rbc.


 


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles.


 


primary responsibilities:


software distribution support 




create software distribution entries into the manual software deployment system


provide technical guidance to the lines of business for compliance activities


participate in the  sccm 2012 migration  activities


assist with the design and implementation of the software library


proactively follow up on software install problems and facilitate remediation.


work thought service partners to resolve all issues impacting software installation.


resolve assigned incidents within establishes slas


identify chronic problems, design and implement a remediation plan.


be cognizant of all current release statuses and problems.


participate in rm bi-weekly meetings to discuss issues related to distribution of sfr’s or any questions that the rm’s may have


identify opportunities for automation and improving software distribution


contribute to development activities designed to improve software distribution.


document prps and workarounds.


stay current on new technologies and industry trends.


meet or exceed olas for service commitments.


assist business units and functional units with their specific software distribution and inventorying needs.


develop proposals for senior management.


contribute to successful project completion by identifying risks and developing/recommending mitigation strategies.


ensure operational procedures are documented.


open incident tickets for any and all issues related to missing or incorrect requirements needed to deliver on responsibilities. 




 


relationships & communication 




effectively communicates and builds rapport with team members, stakeholders and interface with groups using a variety of techniques and collaboration from initiation to close.


facilitates small to large group meetings to resolve software distribution issues.


prepares and delivers presentations to business, technology partners and senior management, selecting the appropriate approach based on the audience. 


resolves conflicts/issues and escalates others as appropriate.




 


development & coaching




may act as project leader/back up team leader


continually enhances skills and builds knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business and information systems. 


ongoing sharing of expertise, tips and tricks, knowledge and experience gained through complex packaging activities, software deployments, enterprise support and all other troubleshooting activities.


an active resource to assist junior team members with distribution questions and concerns.




 


position requirements/specificiations:


education/experience 




technical undergraduate degree or equivalent experience


sccm2007-2012\sms operations experience




 


process knowledge




sound knowledge of rbc it processes and procedures.


communication skills


facilitation skills


presentation skills


risk assessment & quantification methodologies


conflicts and issues resolution and escalation




 


systems knowledge




in depth knowledge of windows computing technologies.


in depth knowledge of software distribution technologies (sms, sccm2007, sccm2012)


in depth knowledge of sql.


in depth knowledge of networking technologies.




 


how time will be allocated
:


80% production operations


20% identifying chronic issues and implementing remediation plans


 


*li-ts2


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
315 front street
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
07/05/2015
 


req id:
  
91996


posting notes:  
none


