Title:z/OS System Programmer
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-19
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-zOS-System-Programmer-ON/274824700/
purpose:


this position will be responsible to provide software support for the evaluation, installation, maintenance and trouble shooting of a suite of system z operating system components and associated vendor products and/or rbc written code that runs on all rbc mainframe processors. these products and rbc-written code provide infrastructure services and capabilities required to support business applications on the mainframe to properly service rbc clients. software support includes ensuring proper monitoring and alerting is in place for problem avoidance, determining and recommending performance improvements in the system z operating systems space to ensure optimal use of system resources and providing consulting services to applications that utilize these services.


 


context is rbc financial group and subsidiary mainframe systems


 


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles.


 


primary responsibilities:


technical analysis, design and consulting




ensure that supported vendor software and rbc written code maintained by the incumbent are maintained at appropriate levels to ensure rbc remains on the leading edge of technology. the expectation is that vendor software will be upgraded to new version, release and/or maintenance levels within 6-9 months of said software becoming available


ensure that changes to supported vendor software and rbc written code maintained by the incumbent are documented in the rbc change management system and emergency changes destined for the production systems are within the organisational standards.


ensure that problems with supported vendor software and rbc written code maintained by the incumbent are isolated and resolved in a timely manner such that impact is kept to an absolute minimum.


provide technical advice to operations staff in ncc, gcc, and application developers as required to assist in resolution of their problems and questions.


share experiences and knowledge with all members of the team through open communications.




 


testing & documentation




share experiences and knowledge with all members of the team through open communications.


manages all aspects of testing and verification ensuring all tasks are performed for all interfaces.


ensures adequate technical documentation and training.




 


planning, implementation & support




manages all aspects of implementation planning & coordination.


develops detailed plans and accurate estimates for completion of build, system testing and implementation phases of project.




 


relationships & communication




develops criteria for and participates in the evaluation of 3rd party vendors and software as well as due diligence exercises.


effectively communicates and builds rapport with team members, stakeholders and interface groups using a variety of techniques and collaboration from initiation to close.




 


development & coaching




continually enhances skills and builds knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business and information systems.




 


position requirements/specifications: 


education/experience 




post-secondary degree or diploma in computer science with minimum 0-2 years experience working in large z/os complex environment




 


systems knowledge




different programming languages (e.g. cobol, jcl, java, c, assembler)


multiple platforms e.g. mvs, internet, client/server and ability to select appropriate one to meet business needs


it standards, methodologies, cmm & audit requirements


operating system technical knowledge


installation, support, diagnosis techniques




 


process knowledge




communication skills


conflicts and issues resolution and escalation




 


behavioural competencies




achievement motivation


breakthrough thinking


business acumen


customer insight


dealing with ambiguity


strategic influencing


teamwork & cooperation


analytical thinking




 


how time will be allocated:


40% product support


30% production support


20% consulting within and outside group


10% training


 


*li-ts2


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
315 front st west
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
entry level
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
07/06/2015
 


req id:
  
92195


posting notes:  
none


