Title:Project Coordinator (Risk IT)
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-24
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Project-Coordinator-%28Risk-IT%29-ON/275668800/
-------------------------------------------
purpose:


project co-ordination support for the corporate systems market risk it team for financial, resource, and project planning and documentation of business and systems processes/status for senior market risk it manager and market risk project stakeholders.


 


context: 


financial, project and people management reporting support administration and analysis.


 


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles.


 


primary responsibilities:


 


financial management




manages financial operations for market risk it which includes invoice management, sow management, risk ledger program timesheet approvals, and the overall integrity of portfolio financials for market risk it.


assists in market risk it forecasting and planning cycles, including monthly/quarterly project forecasts, annual it planning, and quarterly finance cost center forecasts. 


manages data supporting reporting lifecycles for project management set up and closure.


ensures adequate end user documentation where applicable.


contributes to successful risk it ad hoc report production and management.




 


project management




supporting program manager/project manager(s) to


generate presentations and status reporting for senior executives


capturing any meeting minutes, risk, and issues across multiple it projects


project administration – including timesheet approvals, invoice reviews, and budget forecasting


capturing/monitoring high level timelines across multiple projects




 


relationships & communication




acts as a primary contact for risk it project managers, providing support on financial and project administration support.


aids in the resolution of monthly recovery cycles such as invoice management and month end processes internal to corporate systems portfolio – supporting the data cycle executed by the corporate systems business management team.


collaborate effectively with pmo analysts across corporate systems.




 


general


continually enhances skills and builds knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business and information systems.


 


position requirements/ specifications


behavioral competencies:






financial and business acumen






teamwork & cooperation






achievement, motivation






self-directed






analytical thinking






education/experience (to enter position
)




graduate with a financial or technical degree.




 


process knowledge




cost/benefit analysis & alternatives identification


communication skills


facilitation skills


presentation skills


capital markets experience a plus




 


systems knowledge




advanced microsoft excel, powerpoint, and visio skills


ms project experience a plus




 


how time will be allocated (percent):


 


50 % project administration and pm support


25 % financial operations & management


25 % project management


key organization relationships


reports to:




risk it – risk ledger project manager




 


interacts with:




risk it project managers


risk it program managers


corporate systems business management team


technology & operations finance team


corporate systems pmo analysts group




authorities, impact, risk




scope, complexity & risk: operates within a complex business environment, is expected to communicate within corporate systems risk it and the it functional silos using their terms and have a developing understanding of their portfolio




 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
155 wellington st w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
07/03/2015
 


req id:
  
92431


posting notes:  
none


 


 


