Title:Enterprise Resiliency Architect
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-08
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Enterprise-Resiliency-Architect-ON/272249400/
-------------------------------------------
purpose:  


responsible for providing senior infrastructure and subject matter expertise for the enterprise technology resiliency program for rbc technology & operations.  this candidate will ensure strong technical alignment with key technology & operations initiatives as well as initiatives related to improving resiliency of rbcs technology environment. this role will be the focal point for conducting assessments, recommendations, developing and maintaining the strategic architectures and roadmaps for approved remediation efforts. the selected candidate will also drive the implementation of application instrumentation and enhanced monitoring.


 


primary responsibilities:
 




provide technical guidance and domain expertise to t&o on it resilience and application monitoring.


develop, socialize and maintain reference designs and best practices for it resiliency, recoverability and complexity


work collaboratively with other technology sme’s and architects to identify synergies, best practices and reusable components.


ensures alignment with enterprise wide business & it architecture


lead the identification and operationalization of key resiliency indicators


seeks out industry trends to generate and recommend alternative approaches / solutions to meet needs / requirements (i.e. business case, feasibility)


reviews and approves technical program artefacts


review designs to ensure compliance with program architecture


promotes and leads the instrumentation of critical banking applications




 


relationships and communications




act as the primary domain expert working with business and technology executives and directors, enterprise groups, 3rd party vendors and project teams.


build and maintain working relationships with t&o executive leadership and key subject matter experts around critical initiatives


prepare and deliver presentations to business and technology partners, senior management, and executives, selecting the approach appropriate to the audience


lead complex group workshops for assessment, design, decision making, problem solving, implementation and strategic planning


facilitate knowledge transfer and collaborations




 


development and coaching




mentor, coach and develop team members both on domain expertise and rbc related knowledge


build production resiliency capability in the team and across the t&o organization.




 


position requirements/ specifications:


education




undergraduate degree or equivalent experience in a technical area of study. master’s degree preferred.




 


experience




it experience of at least 15 years out of which 5 years performing infrastructure operations and/or it resiliency initiatives.


advanced to expert knowledge, experience and understanding of architecture, applications, system design and integration


experience in quickly evaluating options, making decisions and executing within and intense high-tech environment.


strong organizational skills with the ability to meet deadlines and manage several activities simultaneously


strong knowledge of financial applications




 


behavioural competencies




leadership


conceptual thinking


impact and influence


strategic influencing


change leadership


breakthrough thinking


customer insight


teamwork and cooperation


achievement motivation


adaptability


analytical thinking


initiative




 


*li-ts2


 


 


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
315 front st w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
07/05/2015
 


req id:
  
91367


posting notes:  
none


