Title:Data Scientist
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-24
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Data-Scientist-ON/269309400/
-------------------------------------------
key accountabilities




to support the influence and impact across the enterprise in promoting the analytics strategic direction across the enterprise.


to help develop and support the use of the analytics centre of excellence policies, tools, and best practices across the enterprise.


provide consulting services to our eim business partners on their information consumption and analytical needs.


participate in the creation of detailed plans and accurate estimates towards development, testing, and implementation of the project or program.


contribute to successful project completion by identifying risks and developing/recommending mitigation strategies.


participate in proof of concept or proof of technology projects.


to help ensure required infrastructure is in place to effectively support components in production.


provide expertise & training to business users.


to help develop proposals and feasibility studies for small to medium projects.


conduct technology research, evaluate analytics tools and produce strategy/direction papers.


develop and maintain strong relationships with power users, project managers, business systems analysts, and etl developers.


create and contribute relevant content and materials to the analytics coe.




 


knowledge/experience




2 years of work experience with big data analytics technologies: hadoop – hdfs, pig, hive, oozie, storm, spark, flume, sqoop, hbase.


intermediate mapreduce development experience.


strong knowledge of design, development, and implementation experience utilizing analytics technologies.


some knowledge in analytics technology integration and architecture.


expert technical documentation skills.


strong interpersonal and communication skills (both written and oral); ability to communicate with people in a wide variety of areas and at various levels from technical specialists to senior management.


must be able to work in a high functioning team environment.


knowledge or experience in the financial or insurance industry is preferred.




 


education required




bachelor degree in computer science


masters in statistics or machine learning




 


*li-ts2


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
88 queens quay w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
07/12/2015
 


req id:
  
90508


posting notes:  
none


