Title:Derivatives Trading Floor Support (Capital Markets - FIC) Excel/Bloomberg/Unix
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-10
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Derivatives-Trading-Floor-Support-%28Capital-Markets-FIC%29-ExcelBloombergUnix-ON/265924200/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


 


the primary   of this role is to provide trading floor support for the rates derivative businesses in toronto. the candidate is expected to have a strong background in rates derivatives trading with the ability to effectively communicate with traders and other key stakeholders and rapidly diagnose and solve problems.

this toronto based position requires candidates to possess excellent communication skills, as the individual will be dealing with trading groups on a frequent basis. additionally candidates should have a strong understanding of fixed income products, trade lifecycle, market data and excel (including vba). they should be able to work effectively within a regional team. equally, though they must also be capable of generating independent ideas, and show great initiative and drive.



 


primary responsibilities


 




deal with trader queries.


managing trading floor production incidents / application outages including risk management systems, market connectivity and tradefeeds


support and maintain p&l, pricing and risk spreadsheets


timely and regular communication to users and technology members 


administer, maintain and troubleshoot various platforms


provide application training to existing and new users.


manage application start-up / shutdown during system maintenance windows and bcp tests.




 


 


authorities, impact, risk


 




direct, significant impact on support for business users


could participate in all areas of application support as directed in a complex and demanding environment


impact on supportability of applications delivered by in-house development teams & vendors




 


 


key relationships


 




reports to regional derivatives client support head


front, middle and back office business users responsible for fixed income derivatives


interacts with peers from the various it applications and infrastructure groups, to trouble shoot and fix any issues that arise during the day


liaise with fo quant/development teams


liaise with off-shore teams   




 


 


working conditions


 




trading floor environment


early morning support


the main hours are from 6:30am through to the close of trading (normally 17:30) monday to friday. covered by 2 shifts. work outside these hours is expected on a “as needed” basis.


weekend work is required on infrequent “as needs” basis for major system enhancements/bcp test.




 


 


education &/or experience


 




previous experience in working in front office investment banking it


trading floor experience                                       


strong fixed income derivative knowledge


good problem solving and problem management skill


excel vba


bloomberg


reuters


ion mmi


proven experience of working in a trade floor environment dealing with system outages using clear incident management skills and processes.




 


           


competencies


 




maintains a “client first” mentality.


can work under pressure and trading floor hours


proven aptitude for business problem solving under pressure


motivation to achieve


able to coordinate multiple work streams simultaneously


ability to prioritize tasks based on criticality


excellent communication skills


excellent interpersonal skills


strong research, investigation and evaluation skills


able to deal directly with diverse array of contacts including business users, infrastructure and desktop support team, development teams, etc.


communicates clearly and precisely to the business without jargon and to it without emotion and effectively managing expectations of both at all times


excellent working knowledge of fixed income products with particular focus on pricing, p&l and risk.




 


technical:




microsoft office including strong proficiency in excel incl vba.  experience of excel add-ins (e.g. bloomberg blp, reuters rtget, ion).


good working knowledge of industry standard etrading (e.g. bloomberg toms, bloomberg, tradeweb).






good knowledge of unix / linux and windows.






broad knowledge of it, with ability to adapt and pick up new technologies as required such as sql, perl scripting etc.






good understanding of geneos or other monitoring tools.




*li-as2


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
200 bay street
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
trading floor
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
05/28/2015
 


req id:
  
89371


posting notes:  
n/a


 


 


