Title:Lead Consultant, Security Analytics
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-03
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Lead-Consultant%2C-Security-Analytics-ON/265215600/
-------------------------------------------
purpose:


it risk and security – information security provides it security consulting for global security services that are business aligned and enablers to the delivery of secure solutions. this position provides leadership and execution in the area of security analytics for security services leveraged by the global rbc business and infrastructure team across all enterprise security services to detect complex and advanced threats.


 


the position provides security and technical leadership in the area of security analytics for security services used to provide protection for the global rbc business, application and infrastructure team across the enterprise. provides security expertise and leadership in the domains of security analytics.


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles.


 


skills & experience:




data analytics and analysis skills with extensive experience working with large data sets to identify and analyze patterns that span lengthy time periods.


visualizing data sets to make associations i.e. “connect the dots” and identify activity that falls outside of baseline levels


security domain expertise: detailed and in depth understanding of security data, attack vectors, counter measures etc


data science expertise: advanced analytical skills, like using machine learning and predictive analytics algorithms, and expert knowledge to prepare data for analysis and reporting.


expert knowledge of big data technologies designed to optimize analysis of large amounts of data.


mapreduce/spark/storm/hive/pig expertise is advantageous.


demonstrate competence and expertise to combat emerging threats by taking advantage of big data, and data discovery advanced threat detection capabilities.


identify the sequence of an attack: analyze data surrounding incidents to identify anomalies and patterns that are not “normal.”


by factoring in it, user, and business application data as context, they can reach a conclusion on the impact of a security incident.


data interrogation techniques to conduct big data analysis in order to discover attack sequences and better understanding of the business impact of security and other events.


analyze security incidents, detect root causes, and infer larger attacks before adversaries can exfiltrate high-value data.


provide results of data analysis to security operations teams to conduct security investigations based on hypothesis and suspicion.


possess the ability to ask questions as needed, receive fast responses, and quickly pivot their investigations based on those responses.


translate security incidents into business impact by developing a centralized view of it, user, business application data and security event data.


define and create a multi-structured data model into a single repository, to be transformed and correlated so that the outcome of security investigations is about business impact.




 


primary responsibilities:




establish, mature and optimize the security analytics capability across the enterprise and globally.


lead the delivery of security analytics capability to identify advanced and targeted attacks, as well as to support / enhance cyber threat analysis, intelligence and reporting functions


lead the evaluation and implementation of security analytics capability to enhance the cyber


provide leadership, guidance and oversight to drive security analytics maturity improvements across the organization, in line with the changing threat landscape, regulatory and compliance requirements etc


provide subject matter expertise, technical deliverables oversight of strategic cyber projects and initiatives to enhance and improve security analytics capabilities and maturity.


conduct regular key control assessments for technologies and services implemented


measure the effectiveness of the cyber solutions capabilities to ensure appropriate plans are in place to address lower performance and ineffective practices


partner with information security operations to provide leadership and support in the areas of 


cyber threat analytics, security analytics techniques and approaches


support the delivery of the 3 year cyber security roadmap to maintain and optimize the security analytics capability.


provide depth of expertise, skills, source of knowledge on current & emerging techniques leveraging security analytics to identify cyber threat issues and trends


act as a point of escalation for security investigations and incidents to provide guidance and oversight on incident resolution and containment techniques


interface into business units to bring business context to cyber threat and trends..


provide security consulting to various areas in the bank on cyber security topics as needed


further develop and enhance relationships with other lines of business to form a cohesive, cross functional cyber security analytics capability to identify trends, external / insider threat intelligence information..


lead the enhancement and optimization of implemented reporting mechanisms to provide enhanced data to detect advanced and complex threats affecting individual business units.


maintain and optimize information / cyber security policies and standards that will drive a baseline security posture with incremental improvements over time.


leads the development of security controls and control objectives and monitors, including the measurement of the effectiveness of security controls.


provides leadership for successful project completion by identifying risks and developing/recommending mitigation strategies.




project planning & execution




provides leadership, direction and guidance for requirements gathering and scope definition for the projects


provide leadership and direction to the project team, including 3rd party suppliers, contingent workers and internal staff.


provides recommendation for best solutions based on understanding of business requirement, needs and challenges




 


relationships & communication




advisors to senior management on cyber security and cyber threat decisions and direction


functions as an in-house consultant to it risk and security, gti, t&o leaders


leads complex group meetings (including business partners) for security design, decision making, problem solving, implementation and strategic planning.


prepares and delivers presentations to business and technology partners, senior management and executives selecting the appropriate approach based on the audience.


effectively communicates and builds rapport with team members, stakeholders and interface groups using a variety of techniques and collaboration from initiation to close.


resolves conflicts/issues and escalates others as appropriate.


provides superior client experience and strengthens relationships with business partners


collaborates with colleagues across the organization to get things done


manages project communications including status reports to executives, stakeholders, business units, vendors, project team etc.


provides senior management with timely updates on project issues


may utilize single vendor/3rd party (consultants, offshoring, outsourcing) of known capacity and manages the relationship at the project level




 


development & coaching




provides direction, expertise, feedback, coaching and development to build the capability of more junior staff.


as part of bau, further develop high performance cyber security teams that are highly skilled and possess depth of experience across the various cyber security domains.


support ongoing cyber talent management, including talent acquisition, development and skills enhancement.


continually enhances skills and builds knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business and information systems


supports development of security engineers


provides direction, expertise, feedback, coaching and development to build the capability of more junior staff.


continually enhances skills and builds knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business and information systems.




how time will be allocated (percent)


security analytics – 70%


security consultation – 10%


security planning and design – 10%


policies, standards, control objectives  – 10%


 


education/experience
 




depth of skills and experience - information security and cyber security domains


data analytics and analysis skills with extensive experience working with large data sets to identify and analyze patterns that span lengthy time periods.


visualizing data sets to make associations i.e. “connect the dots” and identify activity that falls outside of baseline levels


security domain expertise: detailed and in depth understanding of security data, attack vectors, counter measures etc


data science expertise: advanced analytical skills, like using machine learning and predictive analytics algorithms, and expert knowledge to prepare data for analysis and reporting.


expert knowledge of big data technologies designed to optimize analysis of large amounts of data.


professional with experience on security consulting, designing and delivering large projects/programs  


iso 27002, nist 800 series, cobit control framework  


experience with large projects/programs




 


process knowledge




par process and financial knowledge related to technology


annual budget process


risk assessment & quantification


conflicts and issues resolution and escalation


strong communication skills


strong facilitation skills


strong presentation skills


conflicts and issues resolution and escalation


strong negotiation skills




business knowledge




business line(s)’ business strategy, needs and technology




 


systems knowledge




design, deployment, optimization of enterprise security solutions and services e.g. cyber threat management &  intelligence, security analytics solutions, siem, malware detection & analytics, apt detection and containment etc


it standards, methodologies, cmm & audit requirements




 


people management knowledge




rbc hr philosophy, principles, direction, policies & guidelines


talent management process (recruitment/selection, performance management, performance development/coaching, reward/ recognition)


may have to manage staff… dependent on portfolio




*li - fh1


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
88 queens quay west
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
yes
 


job posting end date:
  
07/11/2015
 


req id:
  
89144


posting notes:  
none


