Title:Director- Quality Assurance, Digital
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-19
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Director-Quality-Assurance%2C-Digital-ON/274774300/
purpose:


 


partners across it and lines of business to provide 
quality assurance leadership in the digital space with primary focus areas being mobile application, tablet applications, and online applications.
  


leads multiple quality assurance departments
 to ensure exceptional quality and client experience.  overall accountability for test strategies, planning, execution and provisioning of test environment support for all testing engagements within the digital organization. 


responsible for leading an entire quality assurance team of sr. managers, managers, leads, and analysts.  


to work closely with business and t&o senior leaders and 3rd party service providers to enhance efficiency and effectiveness by aligning qa processes and methods including automation, and continuous focus on innovation to reduce ongoing qa costs while maintaining exceptional quality and user experience.


 


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles.


 


position requirements/specifications: 


 


systems knowledge


• 
relevant technology


• qa standards, methodologies, cmmi, tmmi & audit requirements


• knowledge of rbc delivery processes, target application architectures, programming techniques and defect taxonomies.


 


people management knowledge


•
 talent management process (recruitment/selection, performance management, performance development/coaching, reward/ recognition)


 


how time will be allocated (percent):


 


• documentation, communication and governance – 20%


• people/resource management – 25%


• work program management – 35%


• tactical and strategic planning - 20%


 


authorities, impact, risk:


 


• incumbent will manage a team of 5-10 sr. qa managers and qa managers


• provide testing and release activities for all development and maintenance releases


• fte/contract/vendor resources


              o             10 direct reports (sr. managers and managers


              o             40-50 indirect reports – fte


              o             10-20 (co-ops and summer internships)


              o             50-100 contract resources


• provides signoff for high testing risk projects greater than $1mm qa costs; releasing tested applications to production – able to determine risk and impact of distributions


• incumbent has authority to raise quality issues to protect the production environment and negotiate with all parties to resolve problems


• oversees test progress status for area of concerns, including recommendations for changes


• overall accountability for all qa deliverables within retail applications


• manages and prioritizes all responsibilities effectively


• promotes quality, speed to market and cost-effectiveness


 


key organizational relationships


• 
reports to:
 vp mobile & online technology, retail applications, t&o (dotted-line reporting to vp, commercialization & digital delivery, personal & commercial banking)


• 
internal partners include:
 qa directors, sr. qa managers, qa team members, application development/maintenance teams, product manager, business representatives and test facility teams, strategic sourcing and the global resource centre


• 
external partners include:
  relationship managers, quality assurance (iv&v) practice heads and qa managers who represent strategic vendor partners


 


behavioural competencies (for superior performance)




change leadership


strategic influencing


achievement motivation


developing others


teamwork & cooperation


dealing with ambiguity






breakthrough thinking






business acumen






customer insight




 


education/experience
 
(to enter position)




qa professional with significant experience on in the digital space


university degree




 


process knowledge




testing tools


testing approaches/methodologies






quality controls






communication skills






facilitation skills


presentation skills


risk assessment & quantification methodologies (statistical/combinatorial)


conflicts and issues resolution and escalation




 


business knowledge




business line(s)’ business applications/ processes.




 


*li-kk1


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
88 queens quay west
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
senior manager/director
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


required travel:
  
0-25
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
yes
 


job posting end date:
  
07/03/2015
 


req id:
  
92165


posting notes:  
sf:efc; sf:jb


 


 


