Title:Technical Systems Analyst Fall 2015 Co-op Opportunities
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-23
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Technical-Systems-Analyst-Co-op-Opportunities-ON/264824700/
-------------------------------------------
knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business and information systems.




 


 


what you need to succeed:


 




currently enrolled in a co-operative education program within a post-secondary institution with a focus on computer science, engineering, or technology.


leadership acumen and a passion to apply it in a dynamic business environment


excellent interpersonal and highly developed communication skills (verbal and written)


confidence in working autonomously or as member of a team


capability to manage multiple priorities across a number of assignments and prioritize effectively


ability to resolve any minor conflicts/issues and escalate to others as appropriate


self-motivated, able to work independently or in teams


analytical thinking


strong ms office skills – word, outlook, excel and powerpoint


experience or understanding of the following technology
	


programming languages:
 java, javascript, j2ee, asp.net with c#, visual basic, c++ (under visual studio 6.0)


database
: ms sql server


platforms:
 windows, iis, ibm websphere application server


framework:
 .net


middleware technologies:
 mqseries/websphere, wxf, xml, .net


design techniques and tools:
 object oriented, top-down, structured analysis, component-based design; rational rose


eclipse/rad and worklight development tools


code management tooling
 such as svn, crucible, jenkins


web technologies
: html, css, jquery, ajax, php, visio, axure






experience with testing methodology or frameworks


the ability to hand-code all components and coding for accessibility (ie. wcag 2.0)


cross browser development experience


  of domains, ip infrastructure, server operating systems, and domain registration standards


understanding of it standards, methodologies, cmm & audit requirements




 


 


how to apply:


 


please submit your cover letter, resume, and academic transcripts online at 
www.rbc.com/careers
 by 
june 28, 2015. 


 


in order for your application to be considered, please specify the university or college you are currently attending and your program of study on the application form. 


 


we thank all interested candidates; however, only those selected for an interview will be contacted.


 


at rbc diversity and inclusion are at the heart of bringing out the best in all our people.


 


 


 


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
180 wellington st. w.
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
contract
 


pay type:
  
hourly
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
06/28/2015
 


req id:
  
88631


posting notes:  
none


