Title:Project Intake Manager, Program and Project Delivery
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-22
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Project-Intake-Manager%2C-Program-and-Project-Delivery-ON/275123500/
-------------------------------------------
purpose


 


the project intake manager is a key role with the branch platform and commercial credit (bpcc) program and project delivery (ppd) management team with direct responsibility for intake of the bpcc initiatives. the project intake mgr works closely with business partners in personal and commercial banking as well as the rbc technology partners and actively participates in planning activities to enable alignment between business priorities and technology roadmap.  


 


primary responsibilities


 


portfolio planning


 


• works closely with the bpcc portfolio manager and actively contributes to project intake activities with business stakeholders and t&o partners


• facilitates project intake process / ic cost estimates.


• contributes toward business results as a partner and strategic influencer.


• contributes to governance & oversight of project portfolio.


• continuously improves effectiveness and efficiency of the intake process by incorporating lessons learned, and best practices.


• establishes procedures to improve accuracy, completeness, and timeliness of ic estimates accuracy.


 


relationships & communication


 


• provides superior client experience and strengthens relationship with business sponsors and t&o partners.


• collaborates with colleagues across the organization to get things done.


• maintains open and honest communication with business and technology partners and third parties


• tailors the message to the audience.


• keeps management team and stakeholders up to date with ic status


• provides senior management with timely updates on operational issues.


• manages application development relationships.


• contributes to selection process for external vendors and third party suppliers 


 


managerial excellence


 


• create a work environment where bpcc staff is engaged, challenged, and recognized


• builds portfolio management capabilities on the team.


• holds team members accountable for managerial work.


• contributes to succession planning for key positions, including own.


• promotes a mindset for sustained success, growth and diversity.


• spearheads and guides people through changes.


 


position requirements/ specifications


 
behavioural competencies
 
(for superior performance)




breakthrough thinking (3)


business acumen (5)


customer insight (4)




dealing with ambiguity (6)










strategic influencing (5)




teamwork and cooperation (7)
  










change leadership (5)






developing others (6)  
 




 


experience 
(to enter position)




demonstrated leadership ability


experience with large / complex initiatives with 




high impact or business risk






uncertain business requirements










new technology 




 


education and experience




undergraduate degree or equivalent experience, required


3 years experience in a senior role contributing to delivery of large, complex technology-based initiatives, required






pmp designation, desired


5 years project management experience, desired


graduate education in business or technology, e.g. mba / msc, in progress or complete, desired




 


pm knowledge




project plan development & management 


base-lining & scheduling  


waterfall and iterative / agile methodologies


project metrics reporting






project metrics analysis






program plan and metrics






program governance 






risk assessment & quantification methodologies






issues escalation and resolution 


facilitation skills


scope change management


cost/benefit analysis & alternatives identification


budgeting, project costs management 


procurement




communication management & plans


 


systems knowledge




knowledge of relevant technology


knowledge of it standards, methodologies, cmm and audit requirements




 


business knowledge




general knowledge of factors affecting business


bu specific strategies & critical success factors






trends in the marketplace/ technology




 


people management knowledge




rbc hr philosophy, principles, direction, policies & guidelines


talent management process (recruitment/selection, performance management/, performance development/ coaching, reward/recognition)


workforce planning


job design


organization design




 


how time will be allocated :


 




project intake – 80%


communication  and relationship mgmt - 20%




*li- kk1


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
88 queens quay w.
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
07/04/2015
 


req id:
  
92270


posting notes:  
none


 


 


