Title:IT Configuration Management Analyst
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-26
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-IT-Configuration-Management-Analyst-ON/276315600/
-------------------------------------------
purpose: 


provide exemplary support to rbc capital markets and wealth management businesses. trouble shoots and provides solutions for end user integration products. control source code, build software packages. to develop, improve and automate build and test processes within capital markets.


 


primary responsibilities:


end user integration




provide administration, maintenance, optimization, release management and technical support for end points in the production environments.


good understanding of microsoft-defined best practices.


knowledgeable of sccm, deployment methodologies and task sequencing


operating system build, configuration and engineering




 


coding, testing & documentation




builds and installs software versions.


produces build-and-release reports indicating the status of all facets of development builds and releases.


solid understanding of windows installer technology (self-healing, patching, custom actions, etc.)


proficient in application packaging toolsets (wise packaging studio, installshield, orca, etc)


good understanding of microsoft-defined best practices




 


planning, implementation and support




implements established configuration management processes and procedures


maintains releases, configuration statuses and control documentation


develops detailed plans and accurate estimates for completion of build, system testing and implementation phases of project.


maintains and develops automated build-and-deployment systems.




 


technical analysis, design, consulting




provides consulting services on new initiatives (small to large of varying complexity)


contributes to successful project completion by identifying risks and developing/recommending mitigation strategies


develops criteria for and participates in the evaluation of 3rd party vendors’ software as well as due diligence exercises


organizes and participates in walkthrough reviews of all technical specifications, programmes and unit test plans.




 


position requirements/specifications:


education/experience:




completed a degree or diploma in 2012 or 2013 with a focus on technology


wise packaging studio, installshield, orca


multiple platforms e.g. unix, linux, windows


it standards, methodologies, cmm and audit requirements




 


process knowledge




tracking and reporting tools (e.g. jira and confluence)


different testing tools (e.g. expediter, file-aid, hp qc)


communication skills.


risk assessment & quantification methodologies


conflicts and issues resolution and escalation




 


*li-ts2


 


 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, 
national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


join our talent community

want to be in-the-know about great career opportunities at rbc? it's easy! 
join our talent community
 and get the inside scoop on jobs, career paths, recruitment events, and more!


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
155 wellington street
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


career level:
  
experienced hire/professional
 


pay type:
  
salaried
 


required travel:
  
0
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
07/12/2015
 


req id:
  
92540


posting notes:  
n/a


