Title:Business Analyst (Data Management IT)
Location:Toronto, ON, CA
Date Posted:2015-06-20
URL:https://jobs.rbc.com/job/Toronto-Business-Analyst-%28Data-Management-IT%29-ON/256034200/
purpose:


liaise with business and it partners to analyze and document requirements and recommend solutions that meet stakeholder needs. work with project management, development and qa teams to plan, build and test solutions. support business and partner it teams to test, enhance and effectively use the solution.


context: 
small to large development or maintenance projects
 (application with multiple interfaces, data management and enrichment features).


 


all responsibilities carried out in accordance with code of conduct, rbc values and guiding principles ensuring adherence to privacy principles.


 


primary responsibilities:


 


business analysis




liase with business partners on new initiatives (small to large of varying complexity).


participates in creation of logical and physical data models related to banking and capital markets products.


leads detailed requirement phases identifying, tracking, escalating and/or resolving business systems issues.






assesses, researches, analyzes and documents sponsor/stakeholder needs in accordance with project life cycle and cmm deliverables utilizing reporting tools, requirements.  identifies, tracks and resolves business systems issues.


recommends business solutions that satisfy sponsor/stakeholder needs continually exploring and assessing options for value-add for clients.


together with project manager, determines best mix of development, interfacing applications, to meet business requirements and project objectives.


ensures adequate documentation and training.


contributes to successful project completion within budget and on time by identifying risks and developing/recommending mitigation strategies.




 


planning & testing




develops detailed plans and accurate estimates for completion of requirements and acceptance phases of projects


assists in the development and execution of test plans including the support of qa when required.




 


relationships & communication 




effectively communicates and builds rapport with team members, stakeholders and business partners using a variety of techniques and collaboration from initiation to close.


facilitates small to large meetings and conducts information gathering sessions


prepares and delivers proposed solutions to business partners and senior management, selecting the appropriate approach based on the audience. 


resolves conflicts/issues of medium complexity and escalates others as appropriate.




 


development & coaching


continually enhances skills and builds knowledge in all aspects of the organization, the business and information systems.


 


position requirements/ specifications: 


·        
behavioral competencies
 (for superior performance)




achievement motivation


breakthrough thinking


business acumen


ability to multi-task and work with changing priorities.


customer insight


dealing with ambiguity


strategic influencing


teamwork & cooperation


analytical thinking


work with geographically distributed teams




 


people management responsibilities:




change leadership


developing others


service provider mindset




 


education/experience (to enter position)


·        degree in computer science, business technology or a related field. or degree in accounting


·        cbap or business analysis certification is definitely an asset.


·        minimum 3 years as business analyst or business system analyst.


 


 


process knowledge




requirements methods: interviewing, data modeling, business process modeling, business object modeling and user interface design


different requirement methodologies: methodology of object orientation, use cases, unified modeling language, agile methodologies and traditional waterfall approach


software development life cycle processes


quality controls


cost/benefit analysis & alternatives identification


communication skills


facilitation skills


presentation skills


risk assessment & quantification methodologies


conflicts and issues resolution and escalation




 


business knowledge




accounting (ledger posting) processes is an asset.


finance technical terms such as balanced transaction, credit, debit, p/l, account hierarchies, ledger and sub-ledger among others


broad understanding of risk management


broad understanding of capital markets or wealth management


prior banking experience




 


systems knowledge




end user reporting tools (ms office suite)


data base concepts and query languages


it standards, methodologies, cmm & audit requirements (e2e, use cases, business process mapping)


knowledge of financial products and interface systems (e.g. cgid, peoplesoft gl, egl, epm, llps, feedexpress, epm, fibrs) – nice to have


ability to understand and design xml schemas and messages.




 


people management knowledge




talent management process (recruitment/selection, performance management, performance development/coaching, reward/ recognition)




 


how time will be allocated:


requirements analysis & documentation : 50%


technical development oversight : 20%


testing leadership : 10%


communication : 20%


key organizational relationships




reports to: manager, data management it


business partners: finance, group risk management, statutory and regulatory reporting


technology partners: various source systems it teams




authorities, impact, risk




decision authority:


scope, complexity & risk:


sizing:


impact:




 


diversity and equal opportunity employment:

rbc is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and inclusion. we are pleased to consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, protected veterans status or any other legally-protected factors.


 


job summary


city:
  
toronto
 


address:
  
155 wellington st w
 


work hours/week:
  
37.5
 


work environment:
  
office
 


employment type:
  
permanent
 


pay type:
  
salary + variable bonus
 


exempt/non-exempt:
  
n/a
 


people manager:
  
no
 


job posting end date:
  
04/02/2015
 


req id:
  
85794


posting notes:  
none


 


 


